
SEATTLE -- Vladimir Guerrero visited Rafael Soriano on Wednesday and was encouraged by the pitcher's progress.

Soriano was hit in the head behind his right ear by a line drive in the eighth inning off the bat of Guerrero in the Angels' 6-4 loss to the Mariners on Tuesday. After remaining on the ground for several minutes, Soriano was taken from the field on a cart and transferred to Harborview Medical Center, where he was kept over night in the ICU.

A CT scan and other tests revealed no skull fractures or brain damage, and the right-handed reliever was diagnosed with a mild concussion. Soriano was released from the hospital on Wednesday and is expected to make a full recovery.

"You never want to hit the pitcher. You want to hit it well, and sometimes that's what happens," Guerrero said through an interpreter. "I didn't feel really great when it hit him on the head. I wasn't trying to hit a line drive right at him. When I went to see him and actually talked to him, then I felt much better."

Most of the Angels said it is the most dangerous aspect of their profession.

"That is the situation where you never want to be the hitter. You don't want to be the pitcher. You never want to see it," Orlando Cabrera said. "That is the worst I've ever seen."

Soriano barely had time to turn his head slightly, but that may have saved him from more serious injury, the examining physician said. The ball also hit him in one of the thickest parts of the skull.

"Your head is connected to the rest of your body, and if it absorbs the impact then if you move your head, you can really soften the blow, and I think that's exactly what happened to him, so he was able to soften the impact," said Richard Ellenbogen said, chief of neurosurgery at Harborview Medical Center. "Pretty miraculous that he was able to absorb that sort of impact and look as great as he's looking right now. But it is the velocity and the mass of the ball that causes the damage, and he got away pretty, pretty good."

Soriano, like Guerrero, is from the Dominican Republic, and that caused the incident to carry greater emotional weight.

"We're both Dominicans. We get along well. I don't want anything to happen to any ballplayer and even more so to a player who is from my own country," Guerrero said. "We're pretty good friends. We talk."

Ellenbogen would not speculate on how long Soriano would take to recover.

In action: Cabrera started at shortstop in Wednesday's series finale against the Mariners, despite indications he might need a day off. Cabrera has been bothered by a sore right index finger since splitting the nail on a bunt attempt on Aug. 24 and committed an error on Tuesday but said the injury isn't much of a hindrance.

"Once I've got the ground ball, it really doesn't get in the way," Cabrera said.

The Angels have Erick Aybar on the bench but were confident Cabrera's finger would not be an issue.

"We looked at DH as an option or a day off, but he assured us he was fine," manager Mike Scioscia said. "If it affects him out there, we can adjust."

Cabrera is hitting .294 in August with 11 doubles.

Adjustments: Chone Figgins was given a day off on Wednesday, while Tim Salmon got the opportunity to start at designated hitter, his first appearance since Aug. 23. Salmon remains stalled on 297 home runs in a career that will end this season. Juan Rivera started in center.

Future stars: The Arizona Fall League will open its season Oct. 10 and will conclude with its championship game on Nov. 18. The Angels will send Triple-A pitchers Daniel Davidson, Richard Thompson and Matt Wilhite along with Double-A catcher Bobby Wilson, Double-A outfielder Terry Evans and Double-A infielder Matt Brown.

All 30 Major League teams supply players to the developmental league that has seen over 1,200 of its alumni reach the big leagues. Last season, Brandon Wood set the AFL single-season home run record, while Jered Weaver and Kendry Morales also participated.

On the farm: Class A Rancho Cucamonga right-hander Nick Adenhart was named to the Midwest League postseason All-Star team after going 10-2 with Class A Cedar Rapids earlier this season.

On deck: The Angels will be off on Thursday and will open a three-game series in Detroit on Friday at 4:05 p.m. PT. Right-hander Ervin Santana will face Tigers left-hander Kenny Rogers. Joe Saunders will start on Saturday.






