
ANAHEIM -- The ups and downs that accompanied Jered Weaver's rollercoaster season are beginning to flatten out.

The twists and turns that came with his starts have now been replaced with a nice, slow straightaway track.

Weaver pitched effectively for the third time in a row and the Angels scored more than four runs against the Blue Jays for the first time since 2006 in their 8-2 win over Toronto in front of a Fourth of July crowd of 44,021 at Angel Stadium on Friday.

The lanky right-hander pitched 7 1/3 strong innings, giving up just two runs on six hits, striking out six and walking just one. Weaver has allowed just three earned runs and 10 hits in his previous three starts, a span lasting 18 2/3 innings.

He had a simple explanation for his recent turnaround and how he's bounced back from allowing six runs against the Mets four starts ago.

"I think concentrating on location and keeping pitches down," Weaver said. "I'm just concentrating on locating all my pitches and things like that, so I'm starting to come around a little bit."

Weaver was cautious, though, about saying that his rocky season has hit a permanent plateau.

"It seems like every time we talk about it, it seems like the next time I go out there and give up a couple [runs]," Weaver said. "It's just one of those things where things are going my way and it's nice."

Six days after no-hitting the Dodgers for six innings, Weaver joked about getting the first hit out of the way when he gave up a hit to the game's opening batter, Marco Scutaro.

"I wasn't really worried about that one today," Weaver said with a laugh.

Weaver didn't have to worry about his team's offense, either. The Angels broke a streak of 18 consecutive games against the Blue Jays in which they scored no more than four runs, roughing up A.J. Burnett for eight runs (six earned) on 12 hits in the starter's seven innings.

As it had been the two previous games, the Angels' offense, which banged out 13 hits, was led by home runs. On Tuesday, Garret Anderson hit the winning blast, and on Wednesday, Juan Rivera hit what proved to be a game-winning homer.

Anderson added his second homer in as many starts with a two-run shot in the seventh inning, and Torii Hunter hit an opposite-field homer to open the scoring for the Angels in the second.

"We're doing some things better on the offensive side," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "I think the home runs, although we're not built around them, were big tonight and actually big the last three nights."

Anderson is 5-for-7 with two home runs and four RBIs in his past two starts. But he was more proud of his pair of singles on Friday than his home run.

"I like the other two hits," said Anderson, who was 3-for-4. "When I get hits like that it means I'm really staying with the ball. The pitch that I hit tonight, no matter how bad or good I'm going, I'm going to take a good swing at that if it's over the plate."

With the Angels leading just 2-0 in the fourth inning, Angels outfielder Gary Matthews Jr. told Weaver not to worry, and that the team would score more runs. Matthews turned out to be right, as the Angels added three runs in both the sixth and seventh inning.

"Gary Matthews Jr. came up to me and said, 'Hold in there, we're going to get some for you,' and they did," Weaver said. "Getting those runs made it a little easier."

Howie Kendrick drove in a run in the second and plated two more runs in the sixth on a single that scored Hunter and Matthews, who had doubled in a run earlier that inning.

The Angels scored three more runs in the seventh on Maicer Izturis' RBI single and Anderson's two-run home run.

After scoring just two runs in four games, the Angels have now scored 20 runs in their previous three games.

"It's just a matter of time before it turns around," Weaver said of the offense. "Our club is too talented, and tonight was pretty good stepping stone for what we can do."






