
Spring Training is still six weeks away, but some familiar names have been staying loose in winter ball.

In Venezuela, Kelvim Escobar, Francisco Rodriguez, Juan Rivera and Maicer Izturis have all been active in their home country. Catcher Jose Molina is playing in Puerto Rico.

The Angels gave Rodriguez permission this offseason to pitch winter ball, an activity the team's closer feels he needs to stay sharp. But they imposed limits of one inning per appearance for a maximum of three per week and never on consecutive days.

In nine appearances for Tiburones, Rodriguez has posted an 0-1 record and a 5.59 ERA with four saves. The young right-hander has also struck out 11 batters over 9 2/3 innings. Last season for the Angels, his first as full-time closer, Rodriguez converted 45 saves in 49 opportunities.

Returning to the rotation in 2006 will be Escobar, who made three trips to the disabled list last season before undergoing surgery to his right elbow. The right-hander returned in September to make 15 relief appearances and went 1-0 with a 1.89 ERA to close out the regular season. He then went 1-2 with a 1.59 ERA in six relief appearances in the postseason.

Escobar has appeared in one game for Cardenales this winter and has given up a home run.

Rivera, who could see plenty of time at designated hitter and in the outfield next season, is proving his offensive worth by hitting .410 in 27 games. He also has six doubles, a triple and four homers with 21 RBIs while posting a 1.079 OPS (on-base percentage plus slugging).

Izturis, who again will be called on to back up in the middle of the infield and provide relief at third base for the Angels, is hitting .278 in 27 games for Pastora with five doubles, a triple, homer and 10 RBIs.

Infield prospect Alberto Callaspo is having a solid winter season playing for Caribes. Callaspo is hitting .304 with eight doubles, three homers and 24 RBIs in 55 games with a.370 on-base percentage.

Callaspo's double-play partner is doing well in the Dominican Republic. With Cibao, Erick Aybar hit .325 during the regular season. In eight games for Aguilas in the Dominican Winter League, catcher Mike Napoli hit .360 with a pair of doubles and pair of homers with eight RBIs.



Molina, the likely starting catcher now that his brother, Bengie, left the Angels via free agency, has played in 27 games with Ponce and is hitting .281 with two doubles, a triple and homer while knocking in 10 runs. Jose Molina has also appeared twice at first base.

Also in Puerto Rico, new left-handed setup man J.C. Romero is 1-1 with one save and a 1.56 ERA in 13 appearances for Carolina. Over 17 1/3 innings, Romero has 15 strikeouts and seven walks.

Scott Dunn never made it to the big-league roster last season, but he's pitching in Puerto Rico, where he has an 0- 2 mark and a 10.50 ERA in seven relief appearances.







