
KANSAS CITY -- The Angels' offense, consistent with the brooding, gray skies covering Kauffman Stadium on Thursday, amounted to an artful walk by Reggie Willits and a drive into the left-field seats by one-man wrecking crew Vladimir Guerrero.

After that first-inning noise, it was all Gil Meche and all Kansas City in a 5-2 Royals flush sending the Angels home somewhat deflated. A business trip that began with wins in four of the first five games ended with a pair of losses -- satisfying, if less than rousing, in the final analysis.

"You've got to let the season play out," said ironman Gary Matthews, who has not missed an inning of 29 games. "You have to play at least .500 on the road and win series at home.

"Teams that do that are in the postseason; teams that don't are chillin' at the house in October."

The Angels might have been willin' on Thursday, but it was Meche, a veteran right-hander with high-grade stuff, who did the chillin' -- with a whole lot of help from first baseman Ross Gload and his career day with the bat.

With four hits, finishing a homer shy of a cycle, Gload factored in all four run-scoring innings for the Royals.

The first three came against Jered Weaver, a hard-luck losing pitcher who fell to 1-3 despite matching his career high with nine strikeouts across six innings.

Gload tripled and scored in the first. He singled home a run in the second. He singled and scored the go-ahead run in the sixth. All of this was against Weaver. Gload made it a perfect day with an RBI double in the seventh against Dustin Moseley, scoring his third run on Billy Butler's single.

By that time, Meche had put the Angels' offense to sleep with breaking pitches on the corners, fastballs in the low 90s to good spots and occasional balance-disrupting changeups.

Meche retired 17 hitters in a quiet row after Guerrero launched his two-run blast following a 10-pitch walk to Willits. Placed in the No. 3 spot in the order for the first time in his budding career on the heels of six hits in two nights, Reggie also had a single -- extending his hitting streak to a career-best 10 games -- and Guerrero was 2-for-3 with a walk.

Nobody else in the lineup reached base.

Willits' average fell to .415 from .421 with a 1-for-3 effort, his ninth-inning single against Joakim Soria bringing the tying run to the plate following a walk to Guerrero. No. 5 hitter Casey Kotchman worked the count full before lining to second to end it.

Soria, a Rule 5 Draft pickup from San Diego, gained his fifth save with Meche moving to 3-1 and shaving his ERA to 2.23 in seven starts.

"We had a chance at the end," Kotchman said. "It's all you can really ask for. [Offensive production] is going to come and go. Obviously, we didn't put up enough today.

"Your bats are not going to be there every day, unfortunately. There's not a whole lot you can do some days offensively. You can't force it."

Weaver threw 109 pitches, showing no signs of residual issues from biceps tendinitis. He yielded seven hits and three walks, one intentional. If there was one pitch he'd like back, it was a hanging breaking ball that Tony Pena slammed into left with two outs in the sixth to deliver Gload with the run making it 3-2.

"The stamina's there, the stuff's there," Scioscia said of Weaver. "As the game went on, his command picked up, he moved the ball around. He had good movement; his stuff was lively."

Weaver wasn't unhappy with his effort or his work, only with the result of his labors.

"My job is to keep runs off the board and battle to do that," he said. "Look at our lineup, we're going to do some damage. We showed it the last 10 games."

The Angels return home on Friday night to face Chicago, hoping to get some positive news on Garret Anderson's tight right hip flexor, which has kept him sidelined for the past six games.

"Right now it looks like it's a little shallow on the offensive side," Scioscia said. "We have to have guys behind [Guerrero] taking advantage of pitching around him or what Vlad creates. I'm confident in our groupings."

Scioscia remains one win shy of eclipsing Bill Rigney as the all-time franchise leader among managers. He's a patient man, but he'd love to nail down No. 626 sooner than later -- and it has nothing to do with a line in a record book.






