
OAKLAND -- There's just something about the Angels that brings out the "A" game in the A's.

With longtime Oakland slayer John Lackey trying to get primed for October, the Angels came in riding a five-game winning streak. But on Tuesday night in front of 14,325 at McAfee Coliseum, it was the A's who played like contenders, carving out an 8-1 decision.

"My arm felt great," Lackey said, having gone 5 1/3 innings and surrendered four earned runs on nine hits on nine days' rest. "I just wasn't locating my fastball as well as I like. I think it's going to help me in the end."

The American League West champion Angels are 9-8 against the A's, who find themselves 22 games off the lead, and 19-9 against the rest of the AL West.

Right-hander Sean Gallagher went seven strong innings, outdueling Lackey for the win.

"This guy's thrown two terrific ballgames against us," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said of the A's rookie. "He has good stuff. We haven't gotten comfortable in the box and strung hits together.

"Command has been part of his problem this year, but against us, he's been right on the money."

Gallagher had held the Angels to two singles when Kendry Morales lifted a leadoff homer in the fifth inning to left-center -- his first Major League homer since Sept. 30, 2007 at Oakland.

"He drove that ball the other way," Scioscia said. "Kendry's got that kind of power from both sides of the plate."

The A's stormed back in the bottom half of the inning. Jack Hannahan, batting .217, matched Morales' homer with a blast to right, his ninth. With two outs, Aaron Cunningham doubled and scored the go-ahead run on Ryan Sweeney's single.

The A's expanded their lead to 4-1 in the sixth. Kurt Suzuki doubled leading off, advanced on an infield out and scored when Lackey bounced a curveball for a wild pitch. An RBI double by Daric Barton -- ending an 0-for-20 skid -- after Bobby Crosby's single brought an unceremonious conclusion to Lackey's night.

"I thought John had good stuff," Scioscia said. "He was throwing easy, getting it in good spots early in the game. Later on, [there were] a couple balls he didn't get where he wanted. All in all, he felt good."

Lackey is 11-4 for the season and 14-4 in his career against the A's.

"John's one of the best pitchers in the American League, and he's had pretty good dominance over us, that's for sure," A's manager Bob Geren said. "So anytime you beat a guy like that, it's great. Especially for the young guys we have."

Angels catcher Mike Napoli was impressed with Lackey's stuff, but felt his command wasn't as sharp as usual.

"The spin on his curveball was good, and he had good life on his fastball," Napoli said. "It's just tough when you're behind 1-0, 2-0 a lot."

Rookie Kevin Jepsen got the final two outs in the sixth, but the bullpen struggled after the Team USA Olympic star departed.

Jason Bulger's wildness (three walks, a hit batsman and a single) accounted for three A's runs in the seventh. Darren O'Day got two outs with the bases loaded before walking home the third run of the inning. The A's added a run against O'Day in the eighth on Travis Buck's RBI single.

Playing for the first time since straining his left hamstring on Aug. 27 in a game against the A's, shortstop Erick Aybar returned to the Angels' lineup, playing three innings and going hitless in two at-bats.

Scioscia said Aybar came out of the game without any issues and could be back in the lineup on Wednesday night, playing about five innings, if he rebounds well.

Vladimir Guerrero and Juan Rivera, on the mend from recent ailments, are expected back in the lineup before the Angels depart the East Bay on Thursday.

Guerrero's right knee was examined on Monday by Dr. Lewis Yocum, the team's orthopedist, and nothing new turned up. There was what Scioscia described as "inflammation and wear and tear," but nothing to keep Guerrero sidelined.

Rivera is rebounding from right hip flexor tightness sustained running out his third double (to go with a homer) on Saturday night against the Mariners.






