
ANAHEIM -- It's a good thing Chone Figgins likes to run.

Not only does that put him at the forefront of American League base-stealers, but it has provided the Angels with coverage at a key position.

Figgins is again the any and everywhere man for the ballclub this season, starting at no fewer than five different positions plus designated hitter. But it has been his time in center field that has made the greatest impact.

This was supposed to be the year that Darin Erstad returned to center, but bone spurs in his right ankle have twice sent the veteran to the disabled list and limited him to 27 games. Erstad currently is working out at first base in hopes of returning there as a defensive replacement before the season is out.

Enter Figgins, who has made a habit of moving around since his tenure with the Angels began at the end of the 2002 season. A gifted athlete and one of the fastest men in Major League Baseball, Figgins started his 68th game in center Wednesday night and is happy to have the room to roam.

"It's been fun," Figgins said. "In the infield it is a lot of footwork, but in the outfield I get to run and that is what I like to do."

Aside from Erstad, Juan Rivera also has played center this season, as have Tommy Murphy and Reggie Willits, but the job largely has fallen to Figgins, who is doing what he does best: playing where needed.

Last year, that need was at third base, as Dallas McPherson struggled at the plate and eventually missed two-thirds of the season with a bone spur in his left hip, for which he had surgery.

"It is not so much the physical part, but it's learning the routes and gaining experience at the position," manager Mike Scioscia said. "He is learning how to take charge. He is learning where [Vladimir Guerrero] and Garret [Anderson] and Juan are and players coming out of the infield. He is playing better as he's playing out there every day."

Figgins has credited bench and outfielders coach Ron Roenicke but also Anderson, close friend Juan Pierre of the Cubs and Triple-A Salt Lake outfielder Nathan Haynes for helping adjust to the position. Two plays on Tuesday underscored his growth in center.

In the top of the third, Figgins ran all the way into left field and nearly caught a drive by Wily Mo Pena, only to have the ball bounce off his glove for an error. Then in the ninth he went deep to straightaway center to catch a long fly ball at the warning track by Manny Ramirez.

"I should have caught [Pena's ball]," Figgins said. "But it has been more about learning angles and eye levels. Garret has taught me a lot about running smooth and keeping your head from bouncing too much."

Lineup: Anderson was out of the starting lineup Wednesday with a tight left hamstring. The left fielder has been slowed by the injury for much of the season and the Angels opted to give him a rest day.

"It is that time of year for it so you have to be careful," Scioscia said of wear-and-tear injuries. "It is part of baseball."

Howie Kendrick, who was out Tuesday with a tight right hamstring, was back at second base, while Tim Salmon started against the left-handed Jon Lester as the designated hitter.

Overheard: The Angels are chasing the A's in the American League West and some of players were taking interest in Oakland's earlier start time in Toronto while relaxing in the clubhouse.

"Frank [Thomas] just went deep, 3-0," reliever Scot Shields said. "But we're not scoreboard watching."

Climbing the charts: Francisco Rodriguez converted his 94th career save Tuesday and is currently on pace to become the youngest pitcher to 100 saves. Orioles closer Gregg Olson was 25 years, 205 days when he reached the plateau in 1992. Rodriguez is 24 years, 228 days old.

Rodriguez has converted 20 of his past 21 opportunities and has allowed one earned run in 28 outings.

On the farm: Nick Gorneault went 1-for-5 with five RBIs and a triple in Salt Lake's 7-2 victory at Portland on Tuesday. Jeff Mathis doubled and drove in two runs. Right-hander Steven Shell (5-8) allowed two runs on five hits and a walk with seven strikeouts over seven innings to pick up the win. ... Double-A Arkansas outfielder Terry Evans went 3-for-3 on Tuesday and is hitting .305 in 41 games.

On deck: The Angels will conclude their three-game series with the Red Sox at 7:05 p.m. PT on Thursday with right-hander Jered Weaver set to face Boston right-hander Josh Beckett. John Lackey will start against the Yankees on Friday.






