
SEATTLE -- Considering where he was three months ago, wondering if he'd have a steady job in the Major Leagues in a loaded Angels rotation, Joe Saunders can't resist shaking his head in wonder.

"It does amaze me," he said, having become the American League's first nine-game winner when the Angels turned away the Mariners, 5-4, Tuesday night in front of 23,534 at Safeco Field. "It's special to achieve something like that. There are so many great pitchers, being the first to nine wins really is a great feeling.

"It doesn't really surprise me -- I've always felt I could pitch and have some success. But I'm kind of in a place I've never been before, and it's a great honor ... and a pretty special moment."

The Angels' fourth straight win and 11th in the past 15 games pushed their MLB-best road record to 18-11 and enabled them to maintain their grip on a highly competitive American League West race.

It ended with a flourish, Francisco Rodriguez striking out the side to notch his 23rd save in 24 chances after Jose Arredondo had blazed through a perfect eighth.

It had begun with a rare offensive uprising against one of the game's most feared left-handers.

With Maicer Izturis driving in three runs with a pair of hits, Robb Quinlan rapping out three runs and scoring twice and cleanup man Torii Hunter delivering a pair of hits, including a two-out RBI double to get it started, the Angels exceeded the four-run barrier for the first time in 14 games.

They staked Saunders to a 5-0 lead and chased Erik Bedard, the man imported from Baltimore to take the Mariners places, in the fourth inning.

Bedard, who cost the Mariners five young players, is 4-4 with a 4.47 ERA. The Cy Young Award candidate on the Safeco mound Tuesday night was the other lefty. Saunders shaved his ERA to 2.63, tied for third in the AL, while moving to 9-2.

Winning is nothing new to Saunders -- he was 15-8 in 33 starts as a part-timer for three seasons -- but nobody could have anticipated anything like this. The Angels are 17-4 behind Saunders and Ervin Santana, the man Saunders was supposed to duel for the fifth-starter's role this spring before injuries felled John Lackey and Kelvim Escobar.

"Right now," Hunter said, "he's one of the best lefties in the game. I think he definitely went out and pitched better than Bedard."

Knuckleballer R.A. Dickey was also better than Bedard, keeping the Mariners in the game with 5 2/3 innings of scoreless relief with six strikeouts.

Saunders sailed into the fourth having allowed one hit, when Jose Lopez's leadoff homer made it 5-1. There were two outs when the Mariners stirred in the fifth on Yuniesky Betancourt's second double and an infield hit by Ichiro Suzuki.

Lopez's grounder to Howie Kendrick's left jumped up and got through the second baseman for an error, with Betancourt scoring. After Jose Vidro lined an RBI single to right-center, another error -- on a throw from third by Quinlan -- delivered the third unearned run of the inning. It was the first two-error inning of the season by the Angels and only the fifth time they'd committed as many as two errors in a game.

Here came Adrian Beltre with two on and a chance to bust it open. Saunders broke off a two-strike curveball, and Beltre went down swinging.

"That was a big punchout," Saunders said, having finished a 31-pitch inning. "It felt like I threw 50 that inning. It was a battle. My focus was, `Don't get flustered; don't lose my focus or emotions.'

"As a pitcher, you make enough mistakes. When the infielders make mistakes, I say, `I'll pick you up here.' That's been my mind-set ever since high school and Little League."

The Angels struck quickly against Bedard, courtesy of an error by Beltre at third that put leadoff man Reggie Willits aboard. He scored on Hunter's ringing, two-out double to left-center.

Another two-out hit, Izturis' single through the middle, made it 3-0 in the second, delivering Casey Kotchman, who'd walked, and Quinlan, who'd singled.

"Those two-out hits feel good, especially against a guy like Bedard," Hunter said. "We've been getting the job done with pitching and defense keeping us in the game, and we're coming through when it matters."

A two-run fourth gave Saunders a five-run cushion. Quinlan's leadoff double triggered the rally, with Izturis and Kendrick each delivering RBI singles that chased Bedard. He departed after 3 1/3 innings having yielded five runs (four earned) on seven hits and three walks.

Jeff Mathis called all the right pitches for Saunders, Arredondo and K-Rod and walked three times coming off his two-run homer in the series opener.

"We're so good as a hitting team," Saunders said, "we're bound to score. I think it's going to get better."

The guy who came to camp hoping to win a job was beaming. He's come a long way in three months.






