
NEW YORK -- The Angels infield took a hit when Maicer Izturis was placed on the 15-day disabled list Wednesday with a strained MCL in his left knee.

Utility infielder David Matranga was called up from Triple-A Salt Lake while Matt Hensley was placed on the 60-day DL to free up room on the 40-man roster. Hensley opened the season on the DL with a sore right shoulder.

A natural infielder, Izturis sustained the injury while participating in drills during early batting practice at Yankee Stadium on Tuesday. Izturis said he slid to his right to make a backhand stop on a slow grounder when he felt something pop.

"It is a tough loss. He definitely had a role with us and played well," manager Mike Scioscia said. "Hopefully it is not going to take too long."

An MRI exam taken Wednesday showed the strain, but the injury will not require surgery. Izturis will rehab with therapy and is expected to miss four to six weeks. Used primarily as a defensive replacement at third base, Izturis is frustrated at the timing of the setback.

"I was trying to get extra work at third to get more comfortable and unfortunately this happened," Izturis said through an interpreter. "I'm really more upset with my role. (I liked) the way Mike was using me. Hopefully it will run its course and I will be able to make a contribution to the team."

Izturis was part of the deal that also brought Juan Rivera over from Montreal in exchange for Jose Guillen. With newcomer Orlando Cabrera solid at shortstop, Izturis had little chance for playing time there, so the Angels worked him out at third during spring.

Izturis responded, spelling both Robb Quinlan and Dallas McPherson in the late innings while also starting some games.

"I'm feeling really comfortable at third base," Izturis said, who has not had knee or leg problems before. "Being in the role I was, playing defense, I asked a lot of questions on how to help the team."

Izturis will have to wait about five days for the swelling to subside before the training staff can determine when the infielder will be able to resume activity. When Izturis returns, Adam Kennedy will most likely be back in the lineup and complicate his return to the big club. But Izturis said that is not on his mind.

"If Adam is there and that happens, then I'll accept whatever role there is for me and wherever they send me," Izturis said.

Matranga was hitting .308 with two doubles, a homer and nine RBIs in 10 games with the Stingers. Scioscia said Matranga can play three infield spots and in the outfield in a pinch.

"He will give us some speed off the bench and give us some coverage in the infield," Scioscia said.

On the farm: Kennedy had another good day at the plate for Salt Lake on Tuesday. The second baseman went 3-for-4 with a double and an RBI in the Stingers' 12-9 win over Portland. Kennedy has gone 7-for-13 in three games. Casey Kotchman went 2-for-5 with four RBIs in Tuesday's game.

Just another hitter: Jake Woods was close to being a part of history on Tuesday when he came on in relief to face Alex Rodriguez in the eighth inning.

The Yankees slugger had three homers in the books already and was putting in a bid to match the record with his fourth in one game. Another homer also would have tied the American League record with 11 RBIs in a single game.

Woods accepted his assignment in stride.

"I was just going to throw my game; I was going out there to throw my best stuff," Woods said. "He was hot, but I was going out there to throw my best stuff. If he hit it, he hit it and if he didn't, he didn't. It is tough to get a guy out that is swinging like that."

Rodriguez flew out to center.

Like father, like son: Clemson junior Kris Harvey was one of 40 players selected to the Golden Spikes Award Watch List on April 26, which goes to the nation's top collegiate baseball player. Harvey, the son of former Angels reliever Bryan Harvey, was also selected to the Brooks Wallace Award watch list presented to the national player-of-the-year.

The pitcher and designated hitter has 14 homers through 41 games, tops in the Atlantic Coast Conference. Harvey also has eight doubles, 45 RBIs and is hitting .346 while posting a 5-2 mark with a 4.55 ERA as a starting pitcher.

On deck: The Angels will conclude their series with the Yankees at 4:05 p.m. PT on Thursday. Right-hander John Lackey will face Yankees right-hander Kevin Brown.






