
ANAHEIM -- Not all of the heroes have left.

Some of the familiar names from the 2002 title run are gone, but a few remain, and Adam Kennedy proved Tuesday night that there is still some thunder in their sticks.

The second baseman socked a double into the right-field corner with one out in the bottom of the ninth that led to two runs as the Angels recorded a somewhat improbable 5-4 comeback win over the Rangers, extending their winning streak to eight games over their division rivals.

It was also the Angels' 15th win in their last 18 games over Texas, and they're now poised to sweep the series and take their second straight series on the young season when the three-game set concludes Wednesday.

Vladimir Guerrero extended his hitting streak against the Rangers to 38 games by going 4-for-4 on Tuesday. He also scored the Angels' first run on Garret Anderson's double in the first inning.

"I don't know what it is about us and that team," Kennedy said. "You definitely have to stay on your toes because it is tough to win every time."

Down a run in the bottom of the ninth, Darin Erstad led off the inning by getting hit by a pitch from Rangers closer Francisco Cordero. The Angels then played hit-and-run with Casey Kotchman at the plate, and the first baseman lined a single the opposite way to left field.

Maicer Izturis came in to pinch-run for Kotchman, and Jeff Mathis, who entered the game in the eighth to replace starting catcher Jose Molina -- who was lifted for a pinch-hitter in the seventh -- tried to move the runners over with a sacrifice bunt, but he popped out to Cordero.

Kennedy then strode to the plate and lashed the first pitch from Cordero down the right-field line. Erstad scored easily and Izturis pulled up at third.

But Rangers second baseman D'Angelo Jimenez could not handle the throw from right fielder Adrian Brown, and Angels third base coach Dino Ebel wildly waved Izturis home with the game-winner.

"This is a game we would like to have won, obviously," said Rangers shortstop Michael Young. "We did some things well and you have to give Anaheim credit; they battled to the end."

The rally capped a pair of two-run rallies by the Angels over the last three innings to carry them to their fourth win in the last five games.

"It is great to come back to win any time, but especially against one of the game's great closers," manager Mike Scioscia said.

The tenor of the game up until the wild ninth was decidedly different.

Starter Jeff Weaver consumed innings, reaching the seventh for his second straight start. But again, he pitched from behind.

The right-hander allowed a pair of home runs to Rangers third baseman Hank Blalock and again struggled to keep the lead runner off base. Weaver allowed nine hits for the second consecutive start and put the leadoff batter on base four times Tuesday, two of them coming around to score.

Weaver enjoyed a quick 1-2-3 first inning, but the first two outs were deep fly balls to right. Phil Nevin then opened the top of the second with a sharp single to center that Kennedy was able to get a glove on, but it trickled away for a base hit.

Weaver got ahead of Blalock, 0-2, before issuing three straight pitches out of the strike zone. On the sixth pitch of the at-bat, Blalock turned on a curveball and hit a laser over the short wall in right field for a two-run homer.

Ian Kinsler followed Blalock with a base hit but was caught stealing. Weaver then retired seven straight batters before Blalock went deep for the second time on the night and the third time this season.

Weaver squeezed out two more scoreless innings before Rod Barajas led off the seventh with a single to left. A single by Laynce Nix that dropped in front of Anderson in left and a sacrifice by Brown moved Barajas into position to score on Young's sac fly, putting the Rangers up, 4-1.

"I thought Jeff Weaver did a terrific job," Scioscia said. "He gave us innings and got us to the bullpen, which is what we needed. You saw a guy that went after hitters and hit his spots. Other than the balls to Blalock, he pitched well."

Backing Weaver, who also walked one and struck out five for a no-decision, was the Angels bullpen. Brendan Donnelly pitched two scoreless innings and J.C. Romero (1-0) allowed just a two-out single in the top of the ninth to pick up the win.

Down three runs in the bottom of the seventh, the Angels staged the first of their rallies when Erstad and Kotchman led off with back-to-back doubles for one run. After Kennedy singled to advance Kotchman to third, Chone Figgins drove in the Angels' third run of the night with a sac fly to right.

All of which set the stage for the 2002 ALCS MVP.

"We're able to do that because of the pitching staff," Kennedy said. "Weave gave up the home runs to Blalock but he didn't let it get out of hand, and neither did the bullpen against a great lineup. That is just as important and clutch as us getting hits."







