
ANAHEIM -- The Angels figured for a tough night against Barry Zito.

The left-hander was opening the two-game series for the A's and his 11 career wins against the Angels were second only to the 15 he has recorded against Texas.

Looking to gain any possible advantage and stem the tide of a three-game losing streak, Angels manager Mike Scioscia stacked the lineup with whatever right-handers he could find. Edgardo Alfonzo started at third and Robb Quinlan got the call at first.

When Darin Erstad pulled up lame with a sore right ankle, Scioscia trotted Chone Figgins out to center even though he wanted to give his switch-hitting leadoff man the night off.

But against Zito, the Angels just as easily could have been swinging piano legs as they managed five softly struck singles in a 1-0 loss.

Even Garret Anderson's three-run homer bid did not have enough gas as Jay Payton camped under the towering fly at the short wall in right and reached over to keep the Angels' tally at zero.

Tim Salmon gave the crowd one last gasp when he drove A's center fielder Mark Kotsay to the wall with a drive off Oakland reliever Justin Duchscherer, but Kotsay robbed Salmon of extra bases. Alfonzo then singled, but Duchscherer ended the game with a pair of outs to earn his second save.

"I hit it good. With the wall there I didn't think it was over the wall, I was thinking double," Salmon said. "The cool air out there keeps it down. You have to live with that this time of the year. Look at Garret's ball, he crushed it."

Those on the Angels bench thought both shots were homers.

"That is some of the heaviest air I've seen. You would need a howitzer to get it out of here tonight," Scioscia said. "On just about any other night those would have been 10 rows up."

The Angels are now assured of finishing their eight-game homestand with a sub .500 record when they conclude their series with the A's on a getaway Tuesday afternoon. On the horizon is a nine-game trip that will take them to Detroit and Toronto before finishing in Chicago against the White Sox, who just swept the Angels in a three-game series.

But the score was close for good reason and the outing by Hector Carrasco will at least provide some solace to the evening.

Carrasco was making his third start in place of the injured Bartolo Colon, whose return to the rotation is uncertain. And unlike his previous starts when he was upended by the big inning, Carrasco avoided trouble and deftly danced around the issue when the A's threatened to blow the game open in the fourth.

Carrasco started quickly, setting the first 10 men down in order, before Nick Swisher doubled into the right-field corner. Eric Chavez flied out to left, but Frank Thomas worked a seven-pitch walk, the first of three free passes for the Oakland designated hitter on the night.

Bobby Crosby followed by punching a single through the left side of the diamond to score Swisher. Payton hit a sharp ground ball into the hole, but shortstop Orlando Cabrera cut it off and threw to Alfonzo at third just ahead of Thomas for the out.

Carrasco (0-2) retired the A's in order in the fifth and allowed a single and a walk in the sixth to complete his night. He allowed one run on three hits and two walks while striking out three but was still saddled with the loss.

"It is kinda frustrating, but that is the way it is sometimes," Carrasco said.

The Angels had their chances, putting the leadoff man aboard in three of the first four innings, but at no point did they pose a real threat to Zito.

Figgins led off the first with a single to right, Alfonzo reached on Crosby's error in the second and Vladimir Guerrero singled to open the fourth, but they all were stranded. The Angels left a total of eight baserunners and went 0-for-6 with runners in scoring position.

The Angels had one last shot at Zito when Figgins singled with one out in the eighth and Cabrera walked. Anderson then lifted a high fly to right, but Payton drifted over to make the catch.

"They weren't in the way. I turned around and saw there were a couple of Oakland fans, so it worked out pretty well,"  Payton said. "I think they might have held the other fans off."

Anderson could only see it for what it was.

"It was an F-9. It stayed in the park. It was an out," Anderson said. "I hit it good but it didn't go out. If it doesn't go out it's not a home run."

Zito (2-2) allowed five singles and walked two while striking out four to pick up the win, the 12th in his career over the Angels.

"He pitched a heckuva game. That is one of the best games he has pitched against us," Scioscia said. "He changed speeds and when he needed a pitch, he got it."

Salmon said he had the best swings he's had against Zito in years and still finished 0-for-4 with three hard-hit flyouts.

"He's got a great changeup and he still has enough on the fastball that you have to respect it and he still has that curveball," Salmon said. "You're just not going to put a string of hits against a guy like that."






