
CHICAGO -- In a season marked by one debilitating injury after another to every regular except Orlando Cabrera and most of the backups as well, it's probably fitting that the Angels would go into the final two weeks with two-thirds of their outfield less than sound.

The healthy third of the unit is Garret Anderson, who lost a total of 46 games to a hip flexor tear but has been on a tear since the All-Star break, driving in 62 runs in 58 games while raising his average to .302.

Center fielder Gary Matthews Jr. is hobbled by a sprained right ankle that figures to keep him out for at least another week, while right fielder Vladimir Guerrero is a full-time designated hitter until his right triceps heals enough to allow him to throw a baseball.

Guerrero played catch before Friday night's series opener against the White Sox at U.S. Cellular Field, but the arm didn't feel good enough for him to continue, and he kept his glove in the locker on Saturday. Chone Figgins was back in right field, with Reggie Willits in center.

"It's still a little cranky, still a little stiff," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said of the inflamed triceps, sustained throwing, that kept Guerrero out of four games. "I think he threw enough to know there's still a ways to go. No use pushing it."

Matthews is encouraged by how the ankle has responded since he injured it sliding into second base on Tuesday night in Baltimore. He is back on his feet, playing catch to keep his arm strong, the first step in the progression to getting back in center field.

"It was the size of a tennis ball -- an extra ankle on the ankle," Matthews said, recalling that first night. "Initially, I thought it was broken. I was pretty worried.

"Now I'm not worried about it. After that first night, the swelling went down considerably. Now I'll be able to do enough to keep the mental edge and get ready to be there when I need to be."

He'd like to be back on the field by the last week of the regular season, with road games at Texas and Oakland. It's not recommended in Scioscia's realm to talk about the postseason before it arrives, but one reason Matthews came to the Angels was to play serious October baseball, and he'll do everything in his power to be there.

"He's got a little more bounce in his step, which is encouraging," Scioscia said. "I think he's relieved. It's too early to say he's turned the corner, but it's moving in the right direction. It should be shorter term as opposed to what the back end [of an ankle sprain] can be."

Santana impressive: With all the focus on Bartolo Colon's return from an elbow ailment on Friday night, somewhat lost was the overpowering relief work of Ervin Santana, whose spot in the rotation the veteran Colon usurped.

Across three innings, Santana held the White Sox hitless while striking out five and walking two. His fastball was in the mid-90s, and he was putting his offspeed stuff where he needed it.

"I don't think any of Ervin's issues were complacency," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said in response to a question about the demotion to the bullpen motivating his 24-year-old right-hander. "I don't think anything has lit a fire under him.

"He's always been aggressive. He had a nice delivery -- load, hip turn, everything he needs to maintain it."

It was the second relief appearance of Santana's career. In the decisive Game 5 of the 2005 American League Division Series against the Yankees, he gained credit for the win after relieving an injured Colon.

"Ervin threw the ball really well," catcher Jeff Mathis said. "It was live, and he was spotting it well."

Scioscia said no decision had been made on Wednesday's starter at home against Tampa Bay. He's waiting to see how Colon's arm responds to his 99-pitch effort across 4 2/3 innings on Friday night. Santana is an option to return to a starting role after his splendid performance.

Morales hot: Scioscia would like to get Kendry Morales' bat in the lineup -- he's hitting .375 since getting recalled from Triple-A Salt Lake on Aug. 24 -- but the situation with Guerrero has grounded the former star of the Cuban national team.

"It gives us a lot more versatility if Vlad wasn't locked in [at DH]," Scioscia said. "The challenge is to get some of the bats in the lineup with some of the positions guys play. We still have a good lineup. Right now, Kendry hasn't been able to get out there as much as we'd like to."

First base is Morales' best position, but the switch-hitter played the outfield for Team Cuba, and Scioscia said that could be an option. With southpaw Mark Buehrle starting Sunday's series finale and Figgins not yet entirely comfortable hitting from the right side, Morales or Juan Rivera could be the right fielder.

Minor sensations: Led by manager Tom Kotchman, father of Angels first baseman Casey Kotchman, the Orem Owlz claimed their third Pioneer League title in four years when they outlasted the Great Falls White Sox, 3-2, in 16 innings on Friday night.

On Sept. 15 in Angels history: Troy Glaus homered three times against Texas in 2002, the 10th time it had happened in club history. In 1964, Dean Chance pitched his third shutout of the season against the Yankees on his way to giving up one earned run in 50 innings against the Bronx Bombers -- the one run a Mickey Mantle homer.

Up next: In a duel of southpaws, Joe Saunders (8-3, 3.97) engages Buehrle (9-9, 3.39) at 11:05 a.m. PT on Sunday.






