
NEW YORK -- Mike Napoli's adjustment to the Major Leagues was quick.

Called up May 4, Napoli homered in his first at-bat and ended up hitting .327 for the month and followed that with a well-balanced June when he posted an OPS (on-base plus slugging percentage) of 1.055.

As quickly as Napoli adjusted, though, so did opposing pitchers, and he followed with a .169 average in July. He entered Sunday with just four hits in his past 45 at-bats. But where Jeff Mathis was sent down after hitting .103 in 12 games, Napoli is holding on to his job.

"I'm just coming out here and trying to work hard every day," Napoli said. "I separate the two and not take my at-bats with me behind the plate."

The rookie catcher has made a quick study of opposing hitters and has received high marks for his ability to handle the pitching staff, especially Jered Weaver, a fellow rookie whom Napoli caught in Double-A last season and has been paired with for most of Weaver's starts this year, both at Triple-A Salt Lake and with the Angels.

"One thing with Mike is he has not taken his offensive slump behind the plate," manager Mike Scioscia said. "He is catching very well and that speaks to his makeup. His numbers are terrific, and he's had an impact with what our pitchers have been doing."

Mathis' struggles were not just isolated on the offensive end. His overall skills at the position rate higher than Napoli's, but his handling of pitchers was questionable and he was sent down to Triple-A in part to work on calling a game.

His average is currently hovering around the .300 mark, and he will return to the Angels in September, sooner if there is an injury to one of the catchers.

"It was invaluable for him to get back down there and run a pitching staff," Scioscia said. "In the big picture, we're as high on Jeff as we've ever been."

Good to go: Ervin Santana threw a bullpen session Sunday and will start Tuesday in Texas. The right-hander suffered a bone bruise on his left knee when he was hit by a batted ball in Cleveland on Thursday. Santana wanted to stay in the game but was removed after throwing just five pitches.

He also did some fielding drills on Sunday, but the Angels do not anticipate Santana having trouble getting back on the mound.

"It is part of life as a pitcher, and that is one of the reasons why they practice in Spring Training," Scioscia said. "It's mundane taking comebackers and ground balls, but that is why it is so important."

Trainer's room: Garret Anderson (tight lower back) and Maicer Izturis (left hamstring strain) were both held out of Sunday's lineup.

Green light: Vladimir Guerrero made two outs on the basepaths Saturday, both of which ended an inning and killed potential rallies.

The Angels are an aggressive baserunning team and no player is more aggressive than Guerrero, who was thrown out at third in the first and was picked off second in the sixth. Scioscia said his team's style works against them at times, but he wouldn't change a thing.

"If guys are making errors on over-aggressiveness, that is much better than putting anchors on guys," Scioscia said. "There is always going to be a time when you misread the timing of a play. That is baseball.

"If you're going to be aggressive, you're going to run into some ugly outs. But we're going to stay aggressive. If we go station-to-station, we're going to grind to a halt."

Coming and going: Right-handed reliever Chris Bootcheck was optioned to Salt Lake after Sunday's game and outfielder Reggie Willits was recalled as the team looks to add depth to the bench.

On the farm: Dallas McPherson hit two home runs and Nick Gorneault went 5-for-5 with a triple in Salt Lake's 10-9 victory at Colorado Springs on Saturday. Right-hander Steven Shell (4-7) allowed four runs on nine hits over six innings to pick up the win.

On deck: The Angels will conclude their four-game series against the Yankees on Monday at 4:05 p.m. PT, with right-hander John Lackey set to face New York left-hander Randy Johnson.






