
ANAHEIM -- Paul Byrd is a relentless tinkerer and it's that passion for knowledge that has allowed him to pitch 10 years in the bigs.

In spring it was a sinker and over the last month it has been a changeup. Whatever it takes, Byrd said, to help his team win.

"If I can get better, I will," said Byrd, who will start Sunday after missing his last start with back spasms. "I can't throw 95 [mph], but I can be deceptive. The God-given talents I can't control, but if I can change my grip or alter my delivery to get better action on a pitch or create a new one, I'll do it."

The Angels view his attitude as a plus.

"Of all the pitchers that I've been around, he is the one most willing to try new grips or tinker with his delivery and take that into a ballgame," pitching coach Bud Black said. "He is very confident in his ability to pitch and he thinks about always tinkering with his delivery and his mechanics and how it will add to his game."

Byrd first discovered his ability to morph from one outing to the next in 1998, when he crouched lower in his delivery while pitching in the Braves organization. The effect on the hitters was immediate, he said, and that got the wheels spinning. Now he might discover a nugget just minutes before first pitch.

"If something new works while I'm warming up in the bullpen," he said, "why not use it?"

Tough decision: Dallas McPherson will see Thomas Byrd, a hip specialist and the Tennessee Titans' team orthopedist, in Nashville, Tenn., on Monday. The Angels rookie is getting a second opinion on his left hip after hearing that surgery might be his best option.

McPherson said Colorado-based orthopedist Marc Philipon has recommended that he undergo a procedure that would shave a bone spur and clean up the labrum. Philipon speculates the spur could be the cause of McPherson's back problems, a condition that has sidelined him twice since spring 2003.

Going through simple rehab to recover from the injury could exacerbate the problem, McPherson said he's been told. While he is not excited about the option of surgery, he realizes that may be the best course of action.

"I'm just trying to figure what is the best way; I really don't know until I hear what he says," McPherson said. "If I don't like what I hear, I might get eight opinions."

Hanging in the balance is the remainder of this season and ultimately McPherson's career. The Angels had slated him as the starting third baseman from the beginning of spring and hoped the 25-year-old would fill the power void left by the departure of Troy Glaus. But back, groin and hip ailments have limited McPherson to eight homers, 14 doubles and 26 RBIs in 61 games this season. He currently is on the disabled list.

"It is frustrating, but the harder part is making the right decision," McPherson said.

Wait and see: Garret Anderson played soft toss, ran the bases and played catch Saturday morning. The left fielder has been out of action for the past week with a lower back strain and patellar tendinitis in his left knee, but the club remains hopeful Anderson will be available next week.

"He feels that he is at a level that if he doesn't have any setbacks he can get back into the lineup some time in Baltimore," manager Mike Scioscia said of a six-game road trip that begins Tuesday against the Orioles.

Lineup: Steve Finley sat out Saturday's game, with Chone Figgins starting in center. Scioscia said it was more about a day game following a night game than with Finley's recent struggles. Darin Erstad also made his first start at designated hitter since Aug. 4, 2002. Casey Kotchman got the call at first base.

Rehab report: Robb Quinlan, who is recovering from a bulging disk in his neck and a left shoulder strain, has begun to swing the bat well and is getting close to being considered for a callup, Scioscia said. In 13 games at Triple-A Salt Lake, Quinlan is hitting .346 with five doubles, a homer and three RBIs.

Catcher Josh Paul (sprained right thumb) is scheduled to play this weekend at Salt Lake.

Moving up: Kevin Gregg is pitching his way into the late-inning setup mix. The right-hander allowed one hit over two scoreless innings Friday and has not given up a run in his last seven appearances, a span of 13 innings.

The month of August is in sharp contrast to April, May and July, when Gregg did not post an ERA below 5.56 and struggled with his command. But with the bullpen getting taxed of late and Joel Peralta suffering some recent control issues, Gregg is emerging as a setup alternative when Brendan Donnelly is not available.

"His confidence is up and he's probably throwing the ball as well as he has all year," Scioscia said.

High praise: Scot Shields took the loss Friday by allowing the go-ahead run in the 10th, but he caught the attention of the opposition:

"Shields, man, he's incredible," Red Sox center fielder Johnny Damon said. "He knows how to hit his spots. So far this season, he's possibly the Angels' MVP. The guy is incredible. The guy has no fear and a bunch of guts."

On deck: The Angels will conclude their four-game series with the Red Sox on Sunday at 1:05 p.m. PT. Byrd will face Boston rookie right-hander Jonathan Papelbon.







