
ANAHEIM -- Is there anything this kid can't do?

Jered Weaver won his ninth straight decision, becoming only the second American League rookie in history accomplish such a feat.

The other is Yankees Hall of Famer Whitey Ford, so the 23-year old is in pretty good company.

Weaver scattered three hits over seven innings to lead the Angels to a 3-0 victory over the Mariners on Friday night. The right-hander didn't allow a hit until the fourth inning and struck out seven.

"It's great to be mentioned in the same sentence as Whitey Ford, that's for sure," Weaver said. "You don't go into things thinking you can do something like that."

"How can you get better than what he's doing?" acting manager Ron Roenicke said. "If there's seven innings pitched, he's throwing up six zeros all the time and that's really hard to do."

Funny thing is, Weaver wasn't even supposed to be in the Major Leagues this year. He broke onto the scene simply as another temporary candidate to replace injured Bartolo Colon. He began his career holding the Orioles scoreless over seven innings and didn't allow a run for his first 13 innings in the Majors.

What started as sparkling debut became a phenomenon and turned into a national sensation. Just last Monday in New York, the Angels public relation department received 15 separate interview requests for the rookie.

In 24 starts between Triple-A Salt Lake and the Angels, Weaver is 15-1 with a 1.97 ERA and, in the mind of his manager, has the look of a veteran. His Major League ERA is 1.95.

"He has enough mound presence and confidence to work through each situation one pitch at a time," said Mike Scioscia, who served the second game of his suspension and didn't take part in the game. "That's a tool any pitcher who wants to be successful has to either have or acquire, and he's doing it at such a young age."

The rookie, who was visibly upset when Raul Ibanez singled between first and second for the first Mariners hit in the fourth, got into serious trouble only once.

He allowed the first two batters in the seventh to reach, but came back to induce Richie Sexson to fly to right and struck out Ben Broussard swinging.

With a sellout crowd standing and cheering, Weaver reared back with his 107th pitch of the evening and fanned Kenji Johjima on a 3-2 pitch. The right-hander, spurred on by the raucous fans, slammed his fist into his glove in jubilation.

"It felt like I was at Long Beach State again, having all those people standing up and cheering like it was the last inning," said Weaver, who has made only four of 12 starts at home.

"Obviously, you're going to show a little bit of emotion when people are feeding back, and when I was able to get that last strikeout I couldn't help but get a little pumped up over that."

Sexson's fly was deep enough to score Adrian Beltre from third, but a powerful two-hop throw from Juan Rivera kept Beltre standing at third.

"I thought that was an easy run," Weaver said. "But it was a strong throw by Juan Rivera and it's good to see [the Mariners] respect his arm."

With Angels rookie hurlers improving to 14-1 on the year, the Angels wouldn't have a shot at reaching the playoffs if it weren't for such strong performances from so many fresh faces. One such rookie who began his Major League career supplying the Angels with much-needed power took a major step on Friday to regaining that form.

Mike Napoli drilled a two-run home run to center off Mariners starter Felix Hernandez in the fourth, his first home run and RBIs since July 15.

"It felt good, I kind of got the monkey off my back," Napoli said.

Napoli has given the Angels what they thought they were going to receive from fellow rookie Jeff Mathis. Napoli took over from Mathis, who was hitting .103, in May and began his career hitting .314 with six home runs.

He has tapered off since and batted just .195 since as he has essentially assumed the backup role to Jose Molina.

Napoli has caught Weaver in all but one of his starts as the two, who played together in Salt Lake, have developed a strong chemistry. Scioscia credited Napoli with helping Weaver adjust his game plan against the Yankees last week, among other starts.

"They do work well together, but right now I think Jered could throw to a brick wall," Scioscia said. "He's got his game where it needs to be."

The Mariners had no chance of stopping Weaver, but the pitching mound nearly did the rookie in. In the fourth, Weaver landed awkwardly after a delivery and got his foot caught in Hernandez's divot on the mound. He rolled his right ankle, but was able to continue and said he felt no pain after the game.

With the A's dropping both halves of a doubleheader to the Royals, the Angels climbed to within 4 1/2 games of first in the American League West.

Aside from Weaver and Ford, only three other pitchers have began their Major League careers with at least nine straight victories. Livan Hernandez accomplished the feat with the Marlins in 1997, Kirk Rueter did it with the Expos from 1993-1994 and, in 1904, Hooks Wiltse won his first 12 decisions for the New York Giants and holds the Major League record.






