
SEATTLE -- It was a moment that neither side wanted to see but is one of the inherent dangers of baseball.

Vladimir Guerrero, who hits the ball as hard as anyone in the game, perfectly timed a pitch by Seattle's Rafael Soriano and lined it back up the middle.

Soriano, who was still in the follow-through of his delivery, reacted as best he could, but the ball hit him on the side of the head, behind his right ear.

The Mariners would go on to win the game, handing the Angels a 6-4 loss on Tuesday night, but the score was rendered secondary as Soriano was taken to a hospital.

"It is a terrible thing to have happened," Guerrero said in a statement. "When I turned around and saw him on the ground, all I could do was pray for him and his family that everything would be OK."

Soriano entered the game in the top of the eighth in relief of starter Jarrod Washburn. After Orlando Cabrera struck out, Guerrero hit the first pitch of the at-bat back up the middle.

The 26-year-old Soriano was on the ground for about nine minutes but never lost consciousness, the Mariners said, as he was attended to by medical personnel. He was removed from the game on a cart and taken to Harborview Medical Center for further tests, which revealed a concussion but results from a CT scan were not available.

"All we know right now is Rafael Soriano has a closed head injury and concussion," Mariners medical director Ed Khalfayan said. "He will be observed overnight and more tests will be performed tomorrow. He is currently being seen by a neurosurgeon."

Guerrero, who declined to meet with reporters after the game, was visibly upset and stood near first base for a couple of minutes as the entire Mariners team gathered near the mound. Guerrero left the field and did not return until play resumed with Sean Green in relief for the Mariners. Guerrero would eventually score on an RBI double by Garret Anderson with the run charged to Soriano.

"Our thoughts and prayers are with Rafael Soriano. That is scary and we're going to await word that hopefully he is fine and will be back on the mound," manager Mike Scioscia said. "When [Guerrero] got word that he didn't lose consciousness, he was relieved. But naturally that is going to shake you up."

The Mariners evened the season series with the Angels at nine games apiece and can record a sweep with a win on Wednesday. The loss also dropped the Angels 7 1/2 games in back of the A's, who defeated the Red Sox in Oakland.

Jered Weaver (9-2) surrendered consecutive homers to the first two batters he faced and was down 3-1 after throwing just 12 pitches in the first inning. The right-hander allowed five runs on nine hits, including four homers, over 4 2/3 innings for his second straight loss after opening his career 9-0. Washburn (8-12) allowed three runs on six hits and two walks with four strikeouts over seven innings to pick up the win, his third against the Angels this season.

"I threw the ball well for the most part," Weaver said. "It is not the first time it is going to happen and it is not the last. I had to battle all game. I tip my hat to them. I think [Chris] Snelling won the home run derby."

But Weaver, like everyone, was mostly concerned for Soriano.

"It is the pitcher's nightmare. When you see something like that, you don't know what is going to happen," Weaver said. "Our thoughts and prayers are with him."

The Angels scored in the top of the first when Cabrera doubled to center with two out and scored on Guerrero's single and an error by catcher Kenji Johjima. Guerrero singled to right and Cabrera ran through the stop sign of third-base coach Dino Ebel. Snelling made a strong throw home, but Johjima mishandled ball and the Angels took a 1-0 lead.

But the Mariners took charge in the bottom half of the inning as Ichiro Suzuki and Snelling hammered back-to-back homers and Adrian Beltre followed with a double off the left-field wall. Raul Ibanez then hit an RBI double to right and the Mariners led, 3-1.

Ibanez led off the third with his 26th home run of the year while Snelling hit his second homer of the night when he took Weaver deep with one out in the fourth. The Mariners made it 6-1 in the sixth when Johjima hit a hard ground ball to third and Ibanez scored from second on a throwing error by Maicer Izturis.

Anderson and Robb Quinlan hit consecutive home runs in the top of the seventh.






