
TEMPE, Ariz. -- He's known primarily for his uncommon plate discipline and ability to drive in runs, but Bobby Abreu has carved out another distinction with a bat in his hands across 13 Major League seasons.

He's a doubles machine.










Having gone hitless with a walk in his first two games in red, Abreu didn't waste any time on Friday banging his first hit in an Angels uniform at Tempe Diablo Stadium.

Facing Rockies southpaw Greg Smith, part of the deal that made Matt Holliday a member of the Athletics, Abreu smoked a line drive over the head of right fielder Matt Murton in the first inning for two bases. Hainley Statia, who'd walked leading off, then scored on Freddy Sandoval's ensuing sacrifice fly.

In the top of the second, Abreu had his first misadventure in left field, still alien turf after all those seasons in right.

A fly ball by Clint Barmes got up in the blinding sun and Abreu couldn't find it, letting it fall for a triple. But Fernando Rodriguez, replacing Angels starter Sean O'Sullivan after a two-run Colorado first, struck out two hitters to escape without yielding a run.

Abreu made it two doubles in two innings in the bottom half. His sinking liner in front of Murton kicked away from the right fielder far enough to allow Abreu -- always an aggressive baserunner -- to scoot into second.

"Bobby wants to play, to get ready for the [World Baseball Classic]," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said, the Angels having taken a 5-3 decision from the Rockies to move to 3-0 in Cactus League play. "He's stepping some things up.

"He looks good in the batter's box. He's seeing a lot of pitches and swinging the bat pretty well."

A double as his first Angels hit was fitting for Abreu, who has had 35 or more doubles for 10 straight seasons. He led the National League with 50 doubles in 2002 for the Phillies and also has had seasons with 48 and 47 two-base hits, reaching the 40-double plateau six times.

Scioscia has Abreu -- a No. 3 hitter for most of his career with the Phillies and Yankees -- ticketed for the No. 2 spot in the order between Chone Figgins and Vladimir Guerrero.

The possibility also exists that Maicer Izturis, if he claims the shortstop job, could slide into the No. 2 hole with Abreu, Guerrero and Torii Hunter each dropping a spot.

"Bobby's versatile," Scioscia said of Abreu, who will leave on Monday to join Team Venezuela for his second Classic appearance. "He can hit two, three, four or five in the lineup. His ability to drive in runs and set the table is going to be important to us.

"The way our lineup folds in, he'll be two or three [in the order]. If Izturis is in the lineup, we'll have the opportunity to put two guys in front, with Bobby third, Vlad fourth. Right now we've penciled [Abreu] in the two hole."

After Abreu's first double, Sean Rodriguez joined the doubles party with a drive off the wall in left, driving home Abreu and tying the game at 2.

Rodriguez, a superb athlete with big-time power to right center, has been working out at second and short exclusively so far this spring. But he is a natural center fielder who would love to expand his versatility by getting some time in the outfield. A catcher growing up in Miami, Rodriguez also feels he could fill in behind the plate in an emergency.

"I'll do whatever it takes to get in the lineup," Sean Rodriguez said. "I don't care where I play."

Three relievers -- Fernando Rodriguez, lefty Alex Torres and Ryan Brasier -- kept the Rockies scoreless until they made it a one-run game in the eighth with a run against David Herndon.

After Mark Trumbo doubled, his second hit, and scored on Luis Figueroa's single to make it 5-3, Herndon finished the job in the ninth.

"Our batter's box offense for this year in the spring has been a pleasant surprise," Scioscia said, catcher Bobby Wilson joining Trumbo and Abreu with two hits. "Trumbo's double he hit in the gap today was on a nasty slider. These are good signs we're seeing."






