
TEMPE, Ariz. -- Camp opened Wednesday and the Angels marked the occasion with their biggest deal of the offseason by signing free agent pitcher Jeff Weaver to a one-year, $8.4 million contract with an additional $600,000 available in performance bonuses.

The right-hander will not have to move far, exchanging his Dodger blue for Halo red, and will also be able to say he still pitches for Los Angeles following owner Arte Moreno's recent courtroom victory in the naming trial.

Weaver, who lives a short drive from Angel Stadium in Manhattan Beach, will receive another perk by joining his younger brother Jered in the organization. The Angels selected Jered Weaver in the first round of the 2004 draft and the two sides came to terms on a Minor League deal last May.

In Jeff Weaver, though, the Angels have the final piece of what may arguably shape into the best rotation in the Major Leagues. Manager Mike Scioscia was clear Wednesday that he hasn't handed out any assignments just yet, but signing a seven-year veteran with over 200 starts under his belt is a pretty fair indicator that the last spot in the rotation is now spoken for.

Weaver is expected to join an all right-handed rotation that includes 2005 American League Cy Young winner Bartolo Colon, John Lackey, Kelvim Escobar and Ervin Santana.

"Jeff is a guy that we're excited to have," Scioscia said. "If you add him to the arms that we have in the rotation, it is certainly a championship caliber staff. But to have a championship caliber staff you have to have depth. It is not 1-5; it is 1-10."

The Angels will face the depth issue quickly this spring. Colon has been recovering from a right shoulder strain this offseason and only in the last month has resumed throwing off a mound. Colon is also preparing to pitch for the Dominican Republic in the World Baseball Classic and said he is 100 percent healthy.

Escobar is returning to the rotation after having surgery to his right elbow last June. He pitched out of the bullpen at the end of the year and experienced no pain, but he hasn't started for a full year since 2004.

In the next five is a group of talented but largely inexperienced pitchers, who were expected to compete for the rotation. Along with Jered Weaver is left hander Joe Saunders and right-handers Chris Bootcheck and Kevin Gregg, in addition to veteran right-hander Hector Carrasco, who has 10 years in the Majors but only six starts.

They will now shift their roles to the bullpen or starting at Triple-A, though Scioscia said they all will build up innings this spring as the team tackles the question of depth.

But signing Jeff Weaver wasn't simply an insurance policy.

"The only reason to do this was the opportunity to make us a better ballclub," general manager Bill Stoneman said. "You take advantage of (this type of deal) when you can."

Jeff Weaver spent the last two seasons with the Dodgers, going 27-24 in that span, and established a career-high with 14 wins last year. The Dodgers did not offer Weaver a contract nor did they extend salary arbitration.

The 29-year-old had been seeking a multiyear deal and though he went though the entire offseason unsigned, he found some interest, including Texas and Cleveland. Stoneman said he discussed the possibility of a two-year contract, but opted for just one year without an option.

In essence Weaver will be pitching for two seasons, this one and next, but the Angels will be getting an experienced arm that has logged 200-plus innings over the last two years and four 200-plus inning seasons in his Major League career.

With Colon capable of carrying a load (he has a current streak of five straight years of at least 200 innings pitched) and Lackey showing the markings of a workhorse (198 1/3 innings in 2004 and 209 innings last season) the Angels starting staff should once again be the strength of the ballclub.

"It is definitely good," Lackey said. "It is never a bad thing to have too much pitching. We're glad to have him; he has great stuff."

Weaver, who has a 78-87 career record, was originally selected by the Tigers in the first round of the 1998 draft and spent parts of four seasons there. Weaver was traded to the Yankees as part of a three-team deal in July 2002 and was sent to the Dodgers in December 2003 along with right-handers Yhency Brazoban and Brandon Weeden for Kevin Brown.






