
BALTIMORE -- The Angels continue to have early-season defensive problems. Entering Sunday, they led the American League and ranked second in baseball in errors (12), and a miscue played a big role in Saturday's 3-2 loss to the Orioles.
But manager Mike Scioscia and the Angels aren't too worried. The Angels have been a solid defensive team for the last few years, and many of the players remain the same. Everyone seems to view this as the exception rather than the rule.
"We're a fine defensive club," Scioscia said. "I have a lot of confidence in the defensive side of our club. We need [good defense], and I know it's going to be there for us."
The elements seemed to play a role Saturday, as some players had problems with the sun and shadows in the late-afternoon game. Catcher Jose Molina reportedly said that he didn't get a good look at the throw from second baseman Chone Figgins that squirted away from him and helped the Orioles in a three-run fifth inning.
Figgins also didn't seem too upset about the early-season problems.
"There's some crazy things happening right now, but we're all right," Figgins said. "You just keep playing through."
The defensive problems hurt starter Bartolo Colon on Saturday. Colon (0-2) took the loss despite throwing seven good innings. But even he shrugged off the errors as an early-season bump in the road.
"They're going to make a lot of plays for me," Colon said through an interpreter. "I support them 100 percent."

The catching rotation: Scioscia said the team's thoughts on the catching situation remain the same. Both Molina (.143, seven games) and Jeff Mathis (.176, five games) have had problems at the plate, but Scioscia isn't concerned.
The skipper said he wants both to get plenty of chances to play -- and rest -- because it's a long season, and catchers can get worn down.
"We're going to need both of them," Scioscia said. "I think the playing time they're both going to get will ... keep them sharp and keep them rested."
Molina is a well-respected defensive catcher who's working on improving as a hitter, and Scioscia said he's made major strides at the plate in the last few years. Mathis is working on his skills defensively but has shown some flashes of good things.
He started in Friday's 6-5 loss to the Orioles and had a costly passed ball that let Baltimore take a lead in the bottom of the eighth. But Mathis rebounded a few minutes later by blasting a game-tying home run off LaTroy Hawkins with two outs and a 3-2 count in the top of the ninth.
Scioscia, a longtime Major League catcher, said he'd really rather avoid going to a personal catcher for pitchers.

Welcome back: Darin Erstad returned to the starting lineup Sunday, one day after coming back to the team following the birth of his daughter Friday morning in California. He was batting sixth and in center field and involved in a very strange play in the second inning. Javy Lopez hit a shot that barely got over the leaping Erstad's glove into the seats in left-center. But Lopez passed Miguel Tejada between first and second base and was ruled out. Lopez was given a single, and second baseman Adam Kennedy got credit for the putout. Tejada was allowed to score and tie the game at 1.

The "I" has it: Maicer Izturis got the start at shortstop Sunday. He's the first Angel in club history whose last name begins with the letter "I."

3 in a row : The Angels scored in the first inning for the third straight game in Baltimore, when Vladimir Guerrero blasted a two-out solo homer off Orioles right-hander Kris Benson. That also was Guerrero's first extra-base hit since his first at-bat on Opening Day.

Coming up: Jeff Weaver (0-1, 6.57 ERA) starts in the finale of the four-game series on Monday at 4:05 p.m. PT. He's struggled in his first two starts, giving up nine earned runs in 12 1/3 innings. He'll be going against Daniel Cabrera (0-1, 11.37), who has had much bigger problems. Cabrera has walked 16 in just 6 1/3 innings in his two starts this season.






