
MINNEAPOLIS -- The Angels lead the Major Leagues with 26 stolen bases, a result of the aggressive attitude that permeates throughout their offense under manager Mike Scioscia. 

Sometimes that aggressiveness can get them into trouble, like on Friday night when Chone Figgins was thrown out trying to stretch a double into a triple in the first inning. But that's a calculated risk that Scioscia wants his players to take, because they've been so successful at it.

"Our baserunning style helps us get more guys into scoring position and we score far more runs than the outs we give up," said Scioscia, who noted that last season, Angels baserunners went from first to third 99 times and were thrown out only six times.

"We're not going to be deterred by one out," Scioscia said. "That's baseball. Sometimes you just have to tip your cap to the other team. They made a perfect relay to third and he was barely out."

Figgins echoed his manager's sentiments, and proved it by stealing his ninth base of the season in the fifth inning.

"It's our whole team aspect," Figgins said. "We're an aggressive team. No matter who's on base, we're going to make things happen, one through nine. We always take the extra base."

On the play in question, Figgins doubled into the gap in right-center. Jacque Jones tracked down the ball and hit second baseman Nick Punto, whose strong relay throw nipped Figgins on a bang-bang play at third.

"If that play happens every day, I'm going to do the same thing," Figgins said. "It's very rare that I get thrown out like that. They just made a good throw on me."

Scioscia was careful to point out that Figgins' play wasn't in the same category as Dallas McPherson's rookie mistake in the fourth inning. McPherson was caught off first base when Josh Paul lined out to Punto, giving the Twins a rally-snuffing double play.

"You have to be sensitive to players keeping their aggressiveness, but on that play, Dallas had nowhere to go," Scioscia said. "Even if that ball had hit the ground, he still would have been out at second on the forceout."

McPherson's misread was part of the learning curve for any rookie, but even though Figgins is a veteran, he didn't ruffle any feathers by breaking one of baseball's unwritten rules -- making the first out of an inning at third base.

"We don't have that rule here," Scioscia said.

Injury report: Relief pitcher Brett Prinz suffered a minor setback in his recovery from a strained right shoulder. He resumed throwing in the bullpen this week, but he's back on the shelf with more soreness.

"He's had a little inflammation peek back in there," Scioscia said. "It's nothing we can't calm down and get him back in there, but it's on hold now to give him time to get over it."

Adam Kennedy, on the mend from reconstructive surgery on his right knee, will bounce down to Class A Rancho Cucamonga for his rehab assignment, because Portland is expected to run into rain on its current road trip to Tacoma and Portland. Kennedy was 0-for-4 with an RBI on Friday and hit .412 (7-for-17) in four games with the Stingers.

Roof proof: With gametime temperatures in the low 40s and a persistent mist in the air Saturday, the Angels and Twins had to be thankful for the Teflon bubble covering the Metrodome.

But the latest proposal for a new ballpark in Minneapolis calls for an open-air facility. The Twins say they'd love a roof but would need the Minnesota state legislature to cover the estimated $100 million to pay for it, and history has shown that Minnesota isn't keen on allotting public money for stadium projects.

North Dakota native Darin Erstad, who grew up cheering for the Twins, said nights like Saturday should convince Minnesotans of the need for a state-of-the-art ballpark.

"I think they should seriously consider putting a retractable roof on it. I just think that in this era, it's probably something that's best for the fans," Erstad said. "You're going to lose a lot of games early on. It can snow here through May."

Erstad said the fans would benefit more than the players if the ballpark had a roof. 

"Playing-wise, it doesn't matter -- whatever," he said. "But as far as comfort for the fans, you'd probably want a little cover, rather than snow hitting them in the face."

On deck: Bartolo Colon tries to bounce back on Sunday from the shelling he took from Alex Rodriguez and the Yankees in his last outing. He'll face reigning AL Cy Young Award winner Johan Santana, who is undefeated in his last 20 starts.








