
TORONTO -- The lopsided score had little to do with why Angels manager Mike
Scioscia inserted a pinch-runner for Vladimir Guerrero in the ninth inning
of Tuesday's loss to Toronto.

Guerrero singled to deep shortstop to lead off the final frame with the
Angels trailing, 8-0. He appeared to pull up with a slight limp and a
grimmace only a few steps short of reaching first base. Scioscia immediately
sent infielder Zach Sorensen to replace the right fielder.

"He had a little cramp in his calf, but he feels good today," Scioscia said
before Wednesday's game.

Guerrero, who was 3-for-4 on Tuesday, was in his customary No. 3 spot in the
order, but was the designated hitter. Scioscia didn't want to take
any chances on the FieldTurf at Rogers Centre. Jeff DaVanon started in
right field against the Blue Jays.

"We're just going to take the precaution and let him DH instead of playing
outfield," Scioscia said.

Scioscia added that Guerrero injured his leg while swinging -- not while
running out the hit.

The reigning American League MVP has been struggling lately. He entered Wednesday hitting
just .202 in July after posting a .443 average last month. That lowered
his overall batting average from .351 at the end of June to .311.

He has hit four of the Angels' last five home runs, though, including a solo
shot to right in the first inning on Wednesday.

"The whole offense has been a little stagnant for a couple weeks," said
Scioscia, who's team was hitting .237 in its last 16 games before Wednesday. "I don't think
you focus on one guy. You need contributions from everybody. They'll come
around."

Guerrero was walking around the clubhouse on Wednesday without any visible
signs that the right calf might have been still bothering him.

He told reporters that he would've been fine to play outfield if Scioscia
asked him to.

Finding the positive: Not a lot went the Angels' way in their 8-0
loss in the series opener. But among the pile of negatives,
Scioscia did spot a few good things.

"I think there's a couple things that are important to us that took place
yesterday. Obviously, none of them added up to us winning the game,"
Scioscia said. "I think Kevin Gregg threw the ball very well."

Gregg entered in the fourth inning with one runner on and no outs.
The right-hander relieved Paul Byrd, who allowed seven runs on 10 hits in
three-plus innings.

Gregg pitched 3 1/3 scoreless innings, allowed just three singles and struck
out two.

"What Kevin's role is, although it's not as much of a headline role as some
guys in our bullpen, it's important to us," Scioscia said. "That's one
silver lining out of yesterday's game."

The Angels' long reliever has a 4.50 ERA in July and had allowed at least
two runs in his previous eight appearances.

"It's good to get back on track to help out that bullpen even more," Gregg
said. "I felt like I took some steps in the right direction.

"My job as a long reliever is to come in and eat up those innings in a game
like that to give us a chance to maybe climb back in the ballgame."

Gregg is 1-1 with a 6.75 ERA in 15 games this year.

Scary sight: The Angels were one of the teams that Boston's Matt
Clement visited during free agency last offseason. Scioscia met Clement and
said it was hard to watch the pitcher get hit with a line drive to the head
on Tuesday.

"That's scary. I'm sure at some point they're going to have to create some
kind of headgear or something," Scioscia said. "It's just one of those parts
of the game that might need to be addressed. [Clement] is a great guy."

Tampa Bay's Carl Crawford hit a line drive that hit Clement behind his right
ear and ricocheted into left field. Boston's pitcher was released from
Bayfront Medical Center in Florida on Wednesday.

Scioscia had seen a similar accident while playing in the Minors.

"I've seen it happen in Triple-A," he said. "I saw Teddy Martinez hit a line
drive that hit off the pitcher's head and ricocheted into the stands."

The Angels' skipper is in favor of baseball looking into ways to prevent
further incidents, but said that it'd probably be difficult to do.

"I would hope they'd consider some kind of a liner that would protect some
of the critical areas," he said. "But the problem with pitching is that anything that
will be cumbersome will be impossible to pitch with.

"I don't think there's a simple answer for it."

Quotable: "A lot of the pieces that are fitting other clubs are part
of teams that are in the race. So, that might put the brakes on a lot of
[trades]." -- Scioscia, on Sunday's non-waiver trade deadline

On deck: Right-hander John Lackey (8-4, 3.94 ERA) will take the mound for
the Angels against Toronto's David Bush (1-5, 4.77 ERA) in the last game of the
three-game series at Rogers Centre, beginning at 4:07 p.m. PT.






