
ANAHEIM -- If the Angels didn't take a one-game-at-a-time approach, their recent slide that reached three games Saturday night would seem like a disaster.

Instead it serves as a reminder there is plenty of baseball left, making the quickly advancing All-Star break especially timely.

It will provide some much needed rest and reflection, but it also means the Seattle Mariners will leave town.

The Angels roared through the month of June with a 17-9 mark and carried that into July as they took five of their first six games by sweeping the Royals and winning a three-game series from the Twins.

Momentum seemed assured with the last-place Mariners in town for four games and the annual midsummer's three-day hiatus immediately following, but it was Seattle that came ready to play and now it's the Angels who suddenly find themselves staggering instead of steaming into the break.

Using a five-run inning for the second straight night and a solid outing from their starting pitcher for the third straight night, the Mariners slapped a 6-3 loss on the Angels on Saturday and are poised to sweep the four-game set when the series concludes Sunday afternoon.

"They have a good team over there," said Adam Kennedy, who singled and drove in a run in the seventh inning. "We didn't take them lightly and they've stuck it to us the last couple of nights."

Continuing a troubling trend in the series was Angels starter John Lackey, who allowed all five runs after a stretch that saw the right-hander appear as dominating as in any of his 18 starts this season.

From the last out in the first inning to the second out in the third, Lackey fanned six consecutive batters while a double-play ball to end the fourth helped him to face just two batters over the minimum to that point.

But the Mariners then collected six hits in the fifth, including four in a row with two out to transform a tight ballgame into a running joke that none of the Angels were in on.

Lackey was close to escaping largely unscathed. After Mike Morse tied the game with an RBI single, Miguel Olivo bounced into a fielder's choice with Morse getting caught in a rundown. But the Mariners then found the holes as Randy Winn and Raul Ibanez both hit run-scoring singles and Richie Sexson split the right-center gap when he sliced a two-run double to break the game open.

"Tonight, things were not crushed. Just a lot of singles by a hot team," said Lackey, who allowed five runs on nine hits, two for extra bases, and a walk to go with seven strikeouts.

It was the third straight start in which Lackey has allowed at least five earned runs and the first time this season that he's dropped consecutive decisions.

"John looked like he was going to have a chance to get out of it before he gave up those four hits with two out," manager Mike Scioscia said. "It's back to basics. He's working hard for outs. He couldn't minimize the damage and had trouble getting outs."

That now makes three straight outings that an Angels starter has struggled, following the subpar performances of Bartolo Colon and Jarrod Washburn. But given the Angels would not be near first place if it weren't for the rotation over the first two and a half months, Scioscia is not about to second-guess.

"You can't feel anything but confidence in how our starting pitching has performed through the first half of the season," Scioscia said. "These guys have given us a chance to win ballgames almost every night. It has gotten out of hand the last couple of nights. The bullpen has gotten beaten up a little bit, but we haven't lost one ounce of confidence in this unit. They'll be there for us."

The Angels appeared to have shifted the momentum after Darin Erstad's groundout in the third scored Jose Molina to put the Angels up, 1-0, and gave them their first lead of the series. But they couldn't find any rhythm and were outhit by the Mariners, yet again.

"It's been a lack of offense on our part each of the last two nights," Kennedy said of the unit  that showed little life outside of Chone Figgins' double in the third and Juan Rivera's homer to lead off the ninth. "Our pitchers kept us in the game until the middle innings and we couldn't get much going."

Keeping the Angels quiet Saturday was Ryan Franklin (5-10), who allowed two runs on three walks and five hits over 6 1/3 innings to pick up the win.

"Franklin is always tough against us. His numbers are better than they indicate," Scioscia said. "He handled the middle of our lineup." Erstad, Vladimir Guerrero and Garret Anderson were a combined 0-for-11.

Indicative of the Angels' misfortunes Saturday was a popped up bunt attempt by Olivo in the top of the ninth with two on and none out. An apparent out and possible double-play ball instead drifted over the head of reliever Esteban Yan, whose initial step was toward the plate, and fell behind the mound. Figgins fielded the ball but had nowhere to go and the bases were loaded.

Ichiro Suzuki then drove Guerrero to the warning track for a sac fly that scored Willie Bloomquist.

"We need to get a little bit of momentum going and conversely, stay away from the big innings," Scioscia said. "It is something we need to focus on."








