
ST. LOUIS -- There was Adam Kennedy, postseason comet for the 2002 World Series championship club and popular member of the stellar cast, entrenched as the Angels' second baseman.

And here came Howie Kendrick, the kid with the golden bat, groomed as the future at second base for the Angels. The only question was when and how the transition would happen.

It could have been awkward last season, but it wasn't. Kennedy, pure class in every way, wouldn't have it. He treated the rookie with generous professionalism, helping any way he could as Kendrick lined up next door at first base, breaking in as Jackie Robinson did, at a foreign position.

A year later, here's Kennedy in a St. Louis uniform, playing second base for the champion Cardinals alongside old buddy David Eckstein, the 2006 World Series MVP.

And here is Kendrick charting his course in Anaheim as Kennedy's successor, a future star trying to reclaim his hitting stroke after a hand injury cost him a chunk of the season.

"I think he's a great guy for the type of person he is," Kendrick said of Kennedy. "We both understood the situation. It's not like I was trying to take his job. I was just trying to become a better player.

"Last year in the big-league [Spring Training] camp, I took the opportunity to ask him questions, without bugging him in his preparation. He played at this level for a while and was considered a great Major League second baseman. Then when I got called up, I was playing first base, and I was able to watch him turn double plays, handle things around the bag. I picked up a lot of things observing him."

When the time came to make a decision, the Angels opted for the younger man. Kennedy found St. Louis appealing, and here he is, like Kendrick, searching for his stroke. Kennedy was batting .226 and Kendrick .248 coming into the Interleague series this weekend at Busch Stadium.

"Hopefully," Kendrick said, "the time will come when I'll be able to help an up-and-coming player the way he did with me. I really appreciate how he was with me. It's interesting how it's turned out. I hope everything works out for everybody."

Hitting .327 when he broke a bone in his left hand on a pitch thrown by Oakland's Chad Gaudin on April 17, Kendrick has felt his stroke gradually returning.

"I want to get back to being very confident and play my aggressive style," Kendrick said. "It's the first time I've ever broken a hand, but I don't want to make any excuses. Sometimes it gets to me when I don't get the job done, but I have to compete and put it behind me."





Complete coverage &gt;  



 Like father, like son:  Angels manager Mike Scioscia was aglow -- and close to speechless for a change -- after learning that his son, Matt, had been selected by the Angels in the 41st round of the First-Year Player Draft on Friday.

"Matt's worked very hard," the proud papa said. "To get recognized and get drafted ... this is incredible. Evidently, people see there's potential there. That's exciting."

An infielder at Encino Crespi High School, Matt Scioscia is ticketed for the University of Notre Dame.

Mike Scioscia was a multi-sport athlete at Springfield (Pa.) High School when he was drafted in the first round by the Dodgers in 1976. He signed, launching his professional career at 17.

Another Draft connection: Infielder Brandon Lodge of Tesoro High School in Coto de Caza, Calif., was chosen by the Angels in the 46th round. He's the stepson of former Angels great Bobby Grich and the son of TV/radio personality Roger Lodge.



 St. Louis alumni chapter grows:  Troy Percival, signing a Minor League contract, is the latest former Angels star to join the Cards, already enriched by Kennedy, Eckstein, Jim Edmonds, Scott Spiezio and Russ Springer. Percival, the Angels' all-time saves leader, will launch his comeback at Triple-A Memphis.

Percival announced his retirement on Opening Day as he threw out an emotion-charged ceremonial first pitch at Angel Stadium. He delivered a crisp fastball and then continued to throw on the side, eventually deciding to give it another shot at 37.

All but eight of Percy's 324 career saves -- 12th on the all-time MLB list -- came in an Angels uniform. He signed with Detroit as a free agent for the 2005 season but suffered a right forearm injury that limited him to 26 games in two seasons with the Tigers.

"He loves the competition," Scioscia said, adding that he wishes his former closer the best.


 Reggie rests: Without benefit of the designated hitter in National League ballparks, Scioscia can't play all four of his outfielders. Reggie Willits took a seat on Friday night, resting his well-worn wheels along with his .320 batting average and .414 on-base percentage.

Chone Figgins, who batted .500 in 28 at-bats during the Angels' 7-3 homestand, moved back into familiar territory as the leadoff hitter, riding a seven-game hitting streak.

"Reggie's going to play -- we're going to get him in there," Scioscia said. "It's not necessarily a bad thing for Reggie. He's played a lot. His legs have been a little stretched over the last week or so. It's not bad to take a breather."



 Up next: Hoping to end his 0-5 road skid after two solid efforts at home, Ervin Santana (4-6, 5.32 ERA) faces Cardinals right-hander Braden Looper (6-4, 3.72 ERA) on Saturday at 4:15 p.m. PT.






