
SEATTLE -- Even though every game in a 162-game season supposedly is of equal weight, there are some a little heavier than others. Angels' right-hander John Lackey understands when those games come around.

Monday night was one of them, and Lackey (16-8) responded remarkably well. Despite what appears to be strep throat, he held up for a full nine innings to shut out the Seattle Mariners, 6-0, in a critical AL West showdown. He picked up his 16th win, matching Boston's Josh Beckett and Tim Wakefield for most in the American League.

The victory allowed the Angels to move three games ahead in the division with two games left in this series. Lackey now has pitched three games against Seattle this season -- all at Safeco Field -- and has yet to allow a run in 24 innings.

"He's just in sync when he's pitching against these guys," Angels' manager Mike Scioscia said.

Lackey beat the Mariners, 5-0, on May 16, working six innings and allowing just four hits. On July 31, he pitched a complete-game, seven-hit 8-0 shutout.

"That's the kind of mentality he has," catcher Jeff Mathis said. "He wants to be out there with the ball when we need a big win. We love to have him out there during those times."

It's not just Seattle that Lackey lords over. It's the entire AL West this season. In 10 starts against the other three AL West teams, including Oakland and Texas, Lackey is 8-1 with a 2.06 ERA. He is 8-7 with a 4.22 against non-division opponents. The Angels would be 15-15 against the AL West without Lackey.

"That's an incredible effort by John," Scioscia said. "Seattle has a terrific offensive club. They can beat you in a lot of ways. I think he really set the tone by keeping guys off base early, particularly guys who hit in front, like Ichiro [Suzuki]. That really helped him."

What also helped Lackey was an early cushion provided by Garret Anderson. Anderson contributed a solo home run in the second inning and a two-run double in the third.

Lackey had some trouble in the third with runners on first and third and one out but Jose Vidro hit into a force-out and Jose Guillen popped out to short. A couple double plays also eased him out of trouble.

"He had his best stuff," Mathis said. "He located and got ahead of the guys. He got ground balls when he needed them, a couple double plays. He threw the ball well."

There was some concern whether Lackey would be able to pitch. When he arrived his throat was pretty sore already.
"It wasn't in doubt once he got here and was moving around," Scioscia said. "Once he started his pregame [routine] it was pretty sure he was going to go. It was a little touch-and-go. It was certainly something we had to think about."

Anderson, who now has 14 home runs at Safeco -- third most among opposing hitters -- said he knew Lackey was coming down with something Sunday on the plane trip to Seattle. 

"We've had it all around this year," Anderson said. "When you get on the field, if you're able to get on field, a lot of that stuff goes away and you get the adrenaline going. You just get on the field and compete. But he might feel it [Tuesday]."

Lackey, who was anchored in the trainer's room afterward, said through the team's communication's director, Eric Kay: "As the game kept going on, I started to feel weaker. The early lead was key. It set the tone. I settled in and knew what I had to do."

Lackey added that his most effective pitch was his two-seamer. He induced both double plays off of it. 

"It was a big game but at this time of year it makes (Tuesday's) game even more important," Lackey said. "We're going to keep going, keep fighting."

Lackey has now moved one win ahead of Kelvim Escobar (15-6) for the team lead. He said there is a friendly competition between them.

"In Spring Training, we both sat down and talked, we could each get 20," Lackey said.

Escobar already has beaten his career high by one. Lackey has two more victories than his best season.

"He's real intense, really into the game. Fired up every inning," Mathis said of Lackey. "He gives you everything he's got. You know what you're going to get when he goes out there."






