
ANAHEIM -- Once a strength, the Angels bullpen has taken some blows in the second half of the season.

Since coming out of the All-Star break with a string of 29 2/3 scoreless innings, the bullpen has posted a 4.86 ERA. On Saturday, Brendan Donnelly and Scot Shields were unable to protect a 2-1 lead as the Mariners busted out with five runs in the final two innings, including four in the ninth.

Francisco Rodriguez was unavailable Saturday after making four straight appearances and converting three straight saves. Shields had made two appearances in the last week while Donnelly hadn't been in a game since Aug. 27, but the two lead the club in appearances this season. Shields has been in 65 games entering Sunday while Donnelly has appeared in 53.

Though they've been used frequently, Shields does not believe fatigue has been a factor in the relievers' current slump.

"I don't think the workload has anything to do with it. I think all of us feel fine," Shields said. "Last night, I just didn't throw strikes. Until then, I felt pretty good about how I've been throwing the ball over the last month."

Shields did say he had a dead arm about a month ago, but that has passed. The right-hander has logged a career high in appearances already this season, but his innings have been coming down over the last three years. Donnelly notched career highs with 63 appearances and 74 innings in 2003 and the Angels feel the strain is normal for this part of the season.

"Fatigue is an issue, like it is with any bullpen," manager Mike Scioscia said. "There is certainly a lot of work that these guys put in, but I don't think it's anything other than the normal grind of the season."

But help for the bullpen is on the way. Kelvim Escobar, who joins newcomer Jason Christiansen and recalled Greg Jones in the 'pen, will be activated from the disabled list Tuesday. He will draw some middle relief duty and could figure in the seventh and eighth innings.

"[Escobar's] role will be defined as he gets acclimated," Scioscia said. "We want to give him a couple of appearances [in the late innings] and see."

Playing time: Scioscia took advantage of the day off Monday and rested some regulars. Adam Kennedy, Darin Erstad and Bengie Molina were out of the lineup Sunday, with Chone Figgins, Casey Kotchman and Jose Molina starting at second, first and catcher, respectively.

Steve Finley returned to the lineup in center field with Vladimir Guerrero at designated hitter and Juan Rivera starting in right.

"He could play right field, but it was a good day," Scioscia said of Guerrero. "He'll be back out there."

Status quo: Scioscia has been looking ahead in the schedule to see where he might be able to give Bartolo Colon an extra start and possibly have John Lackey go on short rest, but the rotation remains intact for the upcoming three-game series in Boston. Lackey will start Tuesday, with Ervin Santana and Paul Byrd to follow.

Jarrod Washburn pitched seven innings in Saturday's 6-3 loss to the Mariners, but the left-hander has been battling a tight left forearm for much of the season and the Angels want to protect their pitcher's health down the stretch.

"We have to see how Wash comes out of it and how Colon feels," Scioscia said.

Good company: The Angels join the Astros as the only two teams in the Majors this season with three starters in the top 10 in ERA. Entering Sunday's action, Washburn is tied for fifth in the American League at 3.18, Colon is seventh at 3.23 and Lackey is 10th at 3.45. Houston right-hander Roger Clemens is leading the National League with a 1.57 ERA, Andy Pettitte is fourth at 2.50 and Roy Oswalt is seventh at 2.91.

On deck: The Angels head to Boston to play a three-game series with the Red Sox beginning Tuesday at 4:05 p.m. PT. The set in Beantown kicks off a three-city, nine-game road trip. Lackey will face Boston right-hander Tim Wakefield.







