
ANAHEIM -- When he climbed into bed on Thursday night and began his visualization technique, this is what Dustin Moseley saw: first-pitch strikes, outs being made behind him, zeros going up on the board for Oakland ... and a happy ending when it was all over for his Angels.

Done deal.

With Moseley delivering six-plus strong innings and scalding-hot Vladimir Guerrero and Howie Kendrick going deep, the Angels seized a 5-2 decision over Oakland on Friday night to even the four-game showdown of American League West powers at a game apiece.

Guerrero launched his third homer in five games, pushing his RBI total to nine, with a three-run blast to left-center against reliever Jay Witasick in the seventh inning.

This made a winner of Moseley, who allowed one run and five hits while striking out four in front of 43,534 at Angel Stadium of Anaheim.

"I was sitting in bed, and I have a thing where I do some visualization," Moseley said. "This went as well as I visualized. I wanted to get us in position to win and give them five good innings."

For a temporary replacement as Jered Weaver and Bartolo Colon get ready to rejoin the rotation, Moseley couldn't have done much more to impress manager Mike Scioscia.

"Dustin, he was terrific," Scioscia said. "We saw the same stuff all spring. He pitched a great ballgame. He's sneaky fast, pitches to both sides of the plate, and he was mixing in a good breaking ball and change against a good offensive club to keep them off balance."

Moseley, 25, from Texarkana, Texas, was making his third Major League start. He was acquired from Cincinnati before the 2005 season in exchange for pitcher Ramon Ortiz.

While Moseley's effort against left-hander Joe Kennedy might have taken the A's by surprise -- they had only two runners in scoring position against him all night -- there was nothing unusual about the noise Guerrero made.

Moseley made a run in the third and another in the fourth on Kendrick's first homer of the season stand up until Adam Melhuse doubled in the sixth and scored on Nick Swisher's two-out single.

When Eric Chavez doubled leading off the seventh, Justin Speier was summoned, striking out two of the three A's he faced to shut them down.

After Maicer Izturis' single and a walk to Gary Matthews Jr. in the bottom of the seventh, Scioscia chose not to bunt with Orlando Cabrera, not wanting to take the bat out of Guerrero's hands with an intentional walk.

Witasick put in pitch in a bad place, and Guerrero set off the fireworks display beyond the wall in center.

"It was a subpar pitch to an exceptional hitter," Witasick said of the hanging 1-1 slider. It was supposed to be down, away and out of the zone, he said, but Guerrero "covers the plate and then some."

A brilliant play by Kendrick ranging to his right to backhand Todd Walker's shot created a double play instead of a first-and-third situation in the second, enabling Moseley to breathe deeply.

"That was the biggest play of the game for me," Moseley said.

The Angels struck first in the third when Matthews singled, his second hit of the game, and stole second. After a walk to Cabrera, Guerrero was hit on the foot with a pitch, loading the bases. A passed ball by catcher Melhuse allowed Matthews to score.

Leading off the fourth, Kendrick launched a Kennedy slider over the wall in left-center, tying together a great all-around night.

"I've been seeing a lot of breaking balls, so I had to make an adjustment," Kendrick said. "That felt good. So did the double play. I've worked really hard on improving my defense, so a play like that, helping the team out, means a lot."

Guerrero's big blast gave the Angels breathing room, and they needed it. Scot Shields wild-pitched a run home in the eighth after three walks -- two by Speier -- before striking  out Chavez to leave two stranded.

The A's rallied against Francisco Rodriguez in the ninth, but K-Rod left runners at second and third when Marco Scutaro flied to right -- Guerrero's throw home on the fly elicited more applause -- and Bobby Kielty struck out to end it .

Meanwhile, Weaver launched his return from biceps tendinitis with four innings and 77 pitches, 47 for strikes, in a California League game.

Facing Lake Elsinore for the Angels' Class A Rancho Cucamonga affiliate, Weaver gave up two hits and one run on a homer to Nic Crosta, averaging 91 mph with his fastball and getting as high as 93. He walked one batter while striking out five.

"All that tendinitis is pretty much out of there," Weaver said. "I haven't felt any discomfort in there for the last three weeks."

Weaver is scheduled for a 90-pitch outing in Rancho Cucamonga on Wednesday in preparation for an April 16 start in Boston against the Red Sox.

"I would like to think so," he said, asked if he felt ready for Major League hitters, "but it's going to take a little time to get the arm strength up there and get that velocity up there consistently. I got a little tired toward the end.






