
ANAHEIM -- Vladimir Guerrero has gained further recognition as one of baseball's best hitters by being named a finalist for the American League Hank Aaron Award presented by CENTURY 21.

Guerrero, who hit his 28th home run Sunday, joins Orioles shortstop Miguel Tejada, Boston designated hitter David Ortiz, White Sox first baseman Paul Konerko, Yankees third baseman Alex Rodriguez and Rangers first baseman Mark Teixeira as nominees in the AL.

The six finalists in the National League are Braves center fielder Andruw Jones, Cubs first baseman Derrek Lee, Reds center fielder Ken Griffey Jr., Marlins left fielder Miguel Cabrera, Astros third baseman Morgan Ensberg and Cardinals first baseman Albert Pujols.

It's been a good week for Guerrero, who linked his name with Aaron on Friday, Sept. 2, when he hit his 300th career home run to become the 11th Major Leaguer to accomplish the feat before the age of 30. In addition to Aaron and Guerrero, the other nine on the list are: Rodriguez, Griffey, Jimmie Foxx, Mel Ott, Harmon Killebrew, Mickey Mantle, Frank Robinson, Eddie Mathews and Juan Gonzalez.

"It is a great honor to be mentioned with those names," Guerrero said. "But I have to look ahead now on the rest of the season."

Hitting .315 through Sunday, Guerrero is on pace to hit .300 or better for the ninth straight season and should finish with more than 30 homers for the sixth time in his career and 100 RBIs for his seventh Major League season.

"He is a special talent," manager Mike Scioscia said. "There are not many hitters who can do what he can do."

The Hank Aaron Award was created in 1999 to honor the 25th anniversary of Aaron breaking Babe Ruth's career home run record.  For its inaugural season, the award was decided by combining the players' number of hits, home runs and RBIs. From 2000-02, winners of the award were chosen by a vote of Major League Baseball club broadcasters.

In 2003, the award was decided by broadcaster vote and, for the first time, an online fan vote, which was weighed in a 70-30 split. This is the second consecutive year that the award will be decided by an online ballot.

From Sept. 6-30, fans will be able to vote from among the six finalists in each league to determine the AL and NL winners. Voting will take place exclusively at MLB.com.

The 12 finalists were chosen from among 30 nominees, one from each team in Major League Baseball, by a special panel assembled by Major League Baseball, MLB.com and Century 21 Real Estate, the presenting sponsor. During August, fans voted for one of three players from each team through the club's official Web site, and the leading vote-getter from each team became one of the 30 club nominees.

The winners of the award will be announced during a press conference before Game 4 of the 2005 World Series. As part of the online balloting program, one fan will win a trip for four to this year's World Series and have an opportunity to meet Aaron.

Past winners of the award are: Manny Ramirez and Sammy Sosa (1999), Carlos Delgado and Todd Helton (2000), Rodriguez and Barry Bonds (2001, 2002), Rodriguez and Pujols (2003), and Ramirez and Bonds (2004).






