
ANAHEIM -- The kid was game.

Handed the ball to make his first Major League start, Dustin Moseley pitched well enough with a lead Monday night, and let the suddenly surging offense do the heavy lifting as the Angels maintained their July momentum.

And just that fast, he was gone.

After he helped the Angels to a 10-5 victory over the Indians to open the series, Moseley was optioned to Triple-A Salt Lake to make room for another rookie starter, as Joe Saunders will take the hill Tuesday night.

But the young right-hander had no regrets.

"Not at all," Moseley said. "This is my first time, and any time you have the opportunity, you're full of emotions and you're excited."

Offensively, the Angels essentially decided their rookie starter was not going to lose. Each time the Indians scored, the Angels responded in the bottom half of the inning, and they used a 17-hit attack to match a season high and increase their record over the Indians to 11-4 in the last 15 meetings between the two clubs.

Garret Anderson and Orlando Cabrera both homered, while Maicer Izturis went 4-for-5 to record the first four-hit game of his Major League career.

The Angels won their seventh straight game and 12th in their last 13 to move into second place in the American League West, just one half-game out as both Oakland and Texas lost. Their 12-1 mark in July matches the best start in one month in franchise history, accomplished twice in 2002.

"As much as we've told you guys all season long, we didn't panic. We believed, and that has come out," said Adam Kennedy, who went 1-for-4 with an RBI and a run scored.

The Angels went 6-for-10 with runners in scoring position Monday and, in four of the five innings in which they scored, they did so with two out.

"We got our share of two-out hits with runners in scoring position, and that is important to our club," manager Mike Scioscia said. "But I liked out whole approach, because a lot of things went right tonight."

That started with Moseley, who hadn't taken a big-league mound before and was filling in for rookie sensation Jered Weaver, who was pushed back because of biceps tendinitis near his right shoulder.

Moseley spotted the Indians a run in the top of the first when Grady Sizemore singled to lead off the game and Ronnie Belliard knocked him in with a two-out RBI single, but the Angels roared back with three runs in the bottom half of the inning.

Izturis doubled to left with one out and scored on Vladimir Guerrero's RBI single to center. Anderson then yanked a 2-1 pitch from Indians starter Jake Westbrook and hooked it around the right-field foul pole for his eighth home run this season, and the Angels led, 3-1.

Moseley (1-0) does not have commanding stuff. He spots a fastball and uses his changeup frequently, but too often he gets into deep counts.

That showed in the third inning when he left a 3-1 fastball over the plate and Travis Hafner jumped on it for his 28th home run, but the Angels were right there in the bottom half of the frame. Mike Napoli got aboard on a throwing error by third baseman Ramon Vazquez, and he scored on Juan Rivera's double off the wall in left-center. Kendry Morales then singled to right-center to score Rivera, and the Angels took a 5-2 lead.

In the top of the fourth, Todd Hollandsworth led off the inning with a double and Michaels drilled a two-run homer to left off Moseley. It was the eighth home run of the year for Michaels, and the Indians closed within a run, 5-4.

The Angels had yet another answer, though, as Cabrera followed a single by Izturis with a two-run homer to center for his eighth home run of the year in the bottom of the fourth, and Kennedy scored Rivera with an RBI single to center in the fifth, as the Angels built an 8-4 lead.

Moseley enjoyed a perfect fifth inning to end his night, and then turned the ball over to the bullpen, as a combination of Hector Carrasco, Scot Shields and Brendan Donnelly protected the Angels' lead. Moseley allowed four runs on 10 hits without a walk while striking out two to pick up the win.

Westbrook (7-5) allowed seven runs -- five earned -- on 12 hits and a walk with one strikeout in 3 2/3 innings to take the loss.

"I was just trying to stay within myself," Mosley said. "I told myself it would be great to throw seven shutout innings, but just try and stay in the ballgame. [John] Lackey said to me before the game, 'Just keep the train rolling.'"






