
The start of the 2005 season is one month away and if you want to see your Angels play ball, it's time to act.

Individual game tickets for the regular season are on sale now and will be available online.

Prices start at $9 and $5 for children, ages 2-18, and will be available on a first-come, first-served basis. Some price ranges have already sold out.

A limit of eight tickets per game will be in effect and group orders of 25 tickets or more per game will be referred to a Group Sales representative. Only cash and credit cards (Visa, MasterCard and American Express) will be accepted.

The home slate for the defending American League West champs is loaded and gets off to a quick start as divisional rival Texas helps kick off Opening Day a 7:05 p.m. PT on April 5. Following the three-game set with the Rangers, Kansas City comes to town for a three-game series to complete the season's first homestand.

The Angels' two other divisional rivals, Seattle and Oakland, come to play in the second homestand. The Mariners arrive April 18 for two games and the A's will play a three-game series on the weekend, starting April 22.

Highlights on the 2005 promotional calendar include Vladimir Guerrero AL MVP figurine night on April 20, a 2004 season highlight DVD giveaway on April 23, Darin Erstad Gold Glove bobblehead night on May 23, Garret Anderson bobblehead doll night on June 14, and 2005 team photo day on Sept. 25.

Youth giveaways this season will include MLB baseball card sample pack night on April 9, Rally Monkey bubble watch night on May 7, replica jersey T-shirt day on Aug. 7, and back-to-school binder night on Sept. 17.

The Interleague portion of the schedule includes a visit by the Washington Nationals for three games, beginning June 13. Right on their heels are the Marlins for a three-game series that opens June 17, and the Dodgers visit Angel Stadium for the second half of the Freeway Series when they play three games starting June 24.

The Angels will have a major interdivisional showdown in July when the Yankees visit for the weekend in a four-game series that opens July 21. A month later, it's a playoff rematch when the defending World Series champion Red Sox play a four-game series, starting Aug. 18.

Other matchups that could potentially have bearing on the race to the pennant include the Twins (July 4-6) and the Orioles (Aug. 2-4).

But the key battles will be those waged in the West and all three divisional rivals make no fewer than three visits to Anaheim.

The Rangers return for a three-game series June 20-22 and a three-game set Sept. 20-22. The Mariners will return for a four-game series July 7-10, and again Sept. 2-4. The A's return to play a three-game series July 18-20, and finish their regular season with the Angels with a three-game set Aug. 30-Sept. 1

The Angels will conclude their regular season home schedule with three games against the Devil Rays, beginning on Sept. 23.

Tickets will also go on sale at the Angels Box Office, all Ticketmaster outlets, including Robinsons-May stores, Tower Records, Ritmo Latino, Tu Musica and select locations of The Wherehouse.&#160;Charge-by-phone orders will be taken through Ticketmaster at 714-663-9000.










