
PEORIA, Ariz. -- On the face of it, it was far from ugly. But it was not what Shane Loux expected of himself, and he was unsparing in his self-criticism as he reflected on his performance against the Mariners on Thursday.













"Pretty sloppy," the veteran right-hander said of his second effort to convince the Angels he's the guy for the No. 5 spot in the rotation. "I was having a hard time finding the strike zone with my fastball. That's something I've never done. I've always thrown strikes.


"I can't remember the last time I walked a leadoff hitter in a game [as he did with Franklin Gutierrez]. I'm not 19. I need to be better than that. I am being hard on myself. I need to be hard on myself. I plan to put up zeros every time I'm out there. If I don't, I have reason to be hard on myself."


After Loux escaped the first with a double-play ball, the Mariners put together an unearned run in the second when Wladimir Balentien singled, took third on a fielding error by Howie Kendrick and scored on the second double play turned behind Loux by the infield.


"In the 13 years of my career," Loux, 29, said, "this is only the second time I've had a legitimate chance to make a big league club out of Spring Training. It's something I have to deal with. I'll get better. It's just a matter of taking a deep breath and moving on."


The first time he was projected to make a staff was in 2003 with the Tigers, but young Jeremy Bonderman seized the opening.


"I came in to win a job [in '03] and Bonderman took my job," Loux said. "He came in and dominated. I have no regrets. He took my job from me, and that's why I can't let this get away from me."


Loux walked a second hitter in the second inning before escaping the frame having yielded one unearned run in his two innings.


"I can live with base hits," Loux said. "I challenge guys in the zone. When I walk guys, that frustrates me."


In his two outings, Loux hasn't yielded an earned run across four innings. He has yielded four hits and two walks, with one strikeout.

Angels manager Mike Scioscia said he feels Loux is a Major League-caliber pitcher and didn't have a bad outing, overall.



"We're seeing good stuff from Shane," Scioscia said. "Today he had trouble putting guys away. He had good action on his fastball, but he was behind in the count too much for what he needs to do. He came back and made some pitches to get ground balls when he needed to. He has a power sinker; it's heavy. He has to pitch to contact."


Loux was the Pacific Coast League Pitcher of the Year in 2008 at Triple-A Salt Lake and had seven solid outings out of the bullpen for the Angels, fashioning a 2.81 ERA.


He sinks his fastball, getting ground balls as he did on Thursday, and complements it with a nice offspeed assortment.


"It's a little rhythm problem," Loux said of his issue with the strike zone. "I'll make an adjustment and come back in five days and pitch better."


In competition with Dustin Moseley, Nick Adenhart and Anthony Ortega for the No. 5 rotation slot, Loux has seen Kelvim Escobar throw on the side in his recovery from shoulder surgery and senses that the big man will reclaim his spot a lot earlier than July, as initially projected.


"He doesn't look four months away," Loux said. "We're taking note of that."


Such is the depth of the Angels, on the mound and in the field, that a player can have a solid performance -- as Shane Loux did on Thursday -- and believe that he took a step backward.






