
ANAHEIM -- Troy Percival seemed out of place Friday afternoon, sitting in the visitors dugout at Angel Stadium, his No. 40 emblazoned on a blue and orange batting practice jersey, his hands fidgeting as he faced the inevitable barrage of questions about what it means to be back home.

Even while wearing the Tigers uniform, Percival still embodies the Angels, an organization for which he saved 316 games, for whom he closed out Game 7 of the 2002 World Series.

But even though Percival would still seem right at home in an Angels uniform, he has quickly become an indispensable part of the Tigers' clubhouse. Walking around the park and seeing the legacy that he's built here -- with the food vendors, the clubhouse attendants, the fans, his coaches and his teammates -- it becomes clear what Percival meant to the Angels -- and what he could come to mean for the Tigers.

"He embodied what the team was about," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "You're always going to miss Percy's presence. He was a special player, and a special person."

Alan Trammell now has the pleasure of managing Percival, and he's amazed at the inroads the native Californian has made with his teammates in just a few months.

"Normally, guys coming into a new organization, it takes them a little longer," Trammell said. "But [Percival has] been great from the get-go. He's taken it upon himself to be a team leader."

There may be no more accessible clubhouse leader in the Major Leagues. Percival, famous for arriving at Angel Stadium hours before his teammates and coaches, has continued that trend with the Tigers. Trammell, no stranger to long days, said he has yet to beat his closer to the park.

Friday, Percival drove to Angel Stadium from his home in Riverside, just like he has a thousand times before. But when Percival got to the park, he didn't get caught up in the nostalgia.

"I expected to walk in here and think about winning the World Series here," he said, "but it was still like coming into a visiting clubhouse preparing to win."

That's Percival, though -- the consummate teammate. With Percival, it's not about the past and it's not about him. It's about helping his team win. The Tigers are off to a 12-15 start and Percival has just two saves, but that hasn't fazed him at all.

"We've shown we can play with anybody, we just keep coming up a little short," Percival said. "The year we won the World Series, we lost a lot of close games early, and then we started clicking."

While the Tigers are still struggling to find consistency, the Angels have taken a 2 1/2-game lead in the American League West with a 17-11 record. A big part of their success has been a young man that Percival trained to replace him.






   Troy Percival  /    P







Born: 08/09/69
Height: 6'3"
Weight: 235 lbs
Bats: R / Throws: R


More info:
Player page
Stats | Splits
Gallery 
Team Site | Shop




-->





Francisco Rodriguez has converted seven of eight save chances this year, and was 4-1 with a 1.82 ERA as Percival's setup man last year. So, the Angels decided not to offer Percival another contract and to trust Rodriguez with ninth-inning duties.

Percival saw it coming when Rodriguez made his sparkling Major League debut in 2002. He didn't let it upset him, and he even helped groom Rodriguez to take his job.

"It wasn't hurtful because I saw it coming," said Percival, who himself supplanted all-time saves leader Lee Smith in 1996. "It wasn't as if they [the Angels] thought I couldn't do the job."

Percival took his role as mentor seriously. Since Rodriguez's stuff is electric, Percival focused on teaching his apprentice how to handle defeat and "how to let a bad day go."

Percival has taken on a teaching role with the Tigers, too. His locker was next to Kyle Farnsworth's this spring, and he's been keeping a close eye on the hard-throwing right-hander. But for Percival, giving advice goes far beyond the usual platitudes -- it's a studied science.

"With his stuff, I'd like to see him a little more before I really get into it with him," Percival said of working with Farnsworth. "I've only seen him pitch 12, 13 games, and I want to see him make adjustments."

In many ways, Percival is the perfect fit for the Tigers, who hope to put together a winning season for the first time since 1993.

"We've had some lean years," Trammell said, "but having guys like him has quickened the process."

The Tigers knew this, and the free-agent pitch they made Percival this offseason was so convincing that he didn't even finish his free-agent visits, signing a contract with Detroit in a matter of days.

"They weren't throwing offers out there to every closer on the market," Percival said. "Of all the organizations that I talked to, they made it clear that I was the piece of the puzzle that they wanted."

And that's why Percival will be wearing a Tigers uniform Friday night -- because he wants to be the same kind of franchise cornerstone for Detroit that he was for Anaheim.






