
ANAHEIM -- Holding a 3-0 lead after four innings Saturday, Angels starter Paul Byrd yielded five runs before exiting the game. It was the biggest inning by an Angels opponent all season, and in order to avoid another loss, the Angels' still had to contend with A's starter Dan Haren, who swiftly retired the Angels over the first two innings.

In their half of the fifth inning, though, the Angels didn't try to do anything big. They did, however, patiently turn six hits, two stolen bases, a sacrifice fly and a two-run error into six runs -- their most productive inning of the season.

Three relievers and four scoreless innings later, the Angels had themselves a surprisingly comfortable 9-5 victory.

"A lot of things fell into place tonight," manager Mike Scioscia said. "The bullpen was there to pick us up [and] we had some nice things happening on the basepaths."

The Angels stole a season-high five bases, all off Haren and All-Star catcher Jason Kendall. In a three-run third and the six-run fifth, it was like clockwork: base hit, steal, run-scoring single. The Angels didn't hit many balls hard, but they still touched Haren (1-2) for nine hits and eight runs in 4 2/3 innings.

"We're not a team built around the home run," Scioscia said. "We have a lot of situational hitters, our team speed is an asset and we have to use it in different ways."

In the third inning, the Angels put on a clinic in offensive efficiency. Jeff DaVanon worked a walk, stole second and scored on Darin Erstad's single to center. Erstad took second on the throw home and scored on Chone Figgins' opposite-field single. Figgins, in turn, scored when Vladimir Guerrero dumped a ball in the right-field gap for a soft double to give the Angels a 3-0 lead.

Byrd and Haren traded perfect fourths, setting the stage for two equally improbable half-innings.

In the top of the fifth, the A's erased their deficit with one swing. After Scott Hatteberg doubled and Mark Ellis walked to lead off the inning, Bobby Kielty -- who entered the game 1-for-16 -- corked his first homer of the year to right-center to tie the game.

After a groundout, a single and a fielder's choice, Kendall slapped an RBI double on the 11th pitch of his at-bat. Eric Chavez followed with his first hit of the year with a runner in scoring position, singling to center to put the A's up, 5-3, and chasing Byrd -- who had allowed just one hit in the previous four frames.

"[Byrd] lost a little bit of his command in that one inning," Scioscia said. "There were a lot of pluses going in his game early, but he missed with a few pitches [in the fifth]."

The Angels got the lead back in an awful hurry. DaVanon again singled and stole second, scoring on Figgins' RBI single. On the next pitch, Figgins stole second. Two pitches later, Guerrero's double tied the game. Anderson singled on the next pitch, and on the pitch after that, Steve Finley hit a sacrifice fly to give the Angels the lead. Orlando Cabrera followed with a single to chase Haren and bring in Justin Duchscherer and his 0.90 ERA.

No matter -- Dallas McPherson singled to score Anderson and Josh Paul hit a drive into the left-field gap which Charles Thomas dropped for an error, allowing Finley and Cabrera to score, making it 9-5.

The production didn't stop at the plate, though. Having seen its scoreless-innings streak snapped at 22 Friday, the bullpen started building another one. Jake Woods got the last out of the fifth inning and pitched into the sixth for his first Major League win; Esteban Yan added 1 1/3 shutout innings of his own and Brendan Donnelly didn't allow a hit in the final two frames.

Thanks to the hitters and the bullpen, Byrd's lackluster effort -- 4 2/3 innings, six hits, five runs -- didn't cost the Angels a win.

"I was very disappointed in my performance, but very excited my teammates came back," Byrd said. "The starting pitching will get going here and then we'll be a complete team."

The Angels couldn't have had a much more complete offensive effort Saturday. All nine starters reached base and eight of them scored. Figgins, batting second led the way with a two-hit, two-run, two-RBI day at the plate, while nine-hitter DaVanon walked, singled, scored twice and stole two bases.

"It's a team effort and you just never know what you'll need on a particular day," Erstad said. "You can't just rely on the middle of the lineup every night. You need to get production from everywhere, and we did tonight."






