
OAKLAND -- Ervin Santana is growing up quickly.

Called on to fill in for the injured Kelvim Escobar in two separate stints with the Angels, Santana has matched his talent with an ability to handle the pressures of pitching in the Major Leagues.

Santana looked overwhelmed in his first big-league start, when he allowed six runs on eight hits over four innings at Cleveland. That outing included the Indians hitting for the cycle in the first inning.

But he regrouped and put it behind him in his second start by tossing a shutout at home against the White Sox on May 23. Since that time, Santana has struggled in three starts by losing command of the strike zone, but he's generally kept the Angels in games. Occasionally, he's been unhittable.

Santana's win in New York on July 29 was a pleasant sign for the Angels, as he held the Yankees to one run over 6 1/3 innings. Over his last three starts, Santana is 1-1 with a 1.86 ERA, including a one-run, four-hit, six-innings performance Wednesday, for which he earned a no-decision. His ability to adjust and handle pressure has impressed the Angels.

"The game he pitched in Yankee Stadium, and the way he pitched last night was an indication," manager Mike Scioscia said of the rookie right-hander. "His poise was never going to be a question. That is something that will never get in the way."

Still sore: Garret Anderson was a late scratch from Thursday's lineup as he continues to be bothered by patellar tendinitis in his left knee. Casey Kotchman was the designated hitter in the series finale with the A's.

Other lineup shifts included Chone Figgins starting in left, Maicer Izturis at third and Jose Molina behind the plate.
Free passes: Vladimir Guerrero was walked intentionally three times Thursday for the first time in his career. While in Montreal, Guerrero was walked intentionally twice in a game a total of seven times.

The Angels right-fielder homered twice in the three-game series with the A's, prompting some preemptive action.

"You have to look at the impact that he could have," A's manager Ken Macha said. "He already had two home runs against us in the series. If he did something there, I would not have enjoyed my dinner."

Refining Finley: Steve Finley homered off A's closer Huston Street in the ninth inning of the Angels' 4-3 loss Wednesday. The center fielder worked with hitting coach Mickey Hatcher over the weekend on a drill that focuses on hitting the inner quadrant of the ball. It was a drill that worked for Finley during Spring Training and one the Angels hope will work again.

The 40-year-old is nearing the end of his 17-year career, but the Angels believe there is still some offensive punch in his bat, which only a year ago produced 36 homers and 28 doubles.

"You're talking 11 months ago, this guy was one of the hottest hitters in baseball," Scioscia said. "He is not that far removed from [that production], and we hope he gets back to it."

Finley's homer Wednesday was his first in two months. Entering Thursday's game, Finley was hitting .154 over his last 10 games.

Top talent: A number of Angels ranked No. 1 in the American League in the 2005 "Best Tools" edition of Baseball America. Vladimir Guerrero was named the league's top-ranked hitter and its most exciting player, while Darin Erstad was considered the best defensive first baseman.

Francisco Rodriguez has the best slider, and Scioscia is the best manager in the AL, according to the magazine.

On the farm: Dallas McPherson homered in Triple-A Salt Lake's 8-3 loss to the Nashville Sounds on Wednesday. At Stockton, shortstop Brandon Wood went 3-for-5 with his California League-leading 41st double in the Class A Quakes' 9-7 loss to the Ports. Through 109 games, Wood is hitting .312 with 35 homers and 95 RBIs.

On deck: The Angels will travel to the Pacific Northwest for a three-game series with the Mariners, beginning Friday at 7:05 p.m. PT. Left-hander Jarrod Washburn will face Seattle left-hander Jamie Moyer.






