
ANAHEIM -- The Angels received a considerable boost Friday when they activated third baseman Chone Figgins from the 15-day disabled list and placed him at the top of the lineup.

Figgins, who has missed 33 of the past 34 games in two DL stints for a strained right hamstring, has been the catalyst for the Angels offense as the team averages 4.79 runs with him in the lineup and 3.7 runs without him.

And he wasted no time getting back into the swing of things, either, leading off the first inning with a single to center field.



Figgins was batting .306 with 38 hits, 24 walks and 11 stolen bases in 33 games going into Friday, carrying a team-best .423 on-base percentage. He completed a three-game rehab stint with Triple-A Salt Lake and said it gave him a great chance to see how his hamstring would react.

"I had an opportunity to test it the other night in a play where I went from first to home," Figgins said. "I didn't feel anything, except I was dead tired. So that was a good sign."

Angels manager Mike Scioscia said he's excited to have Figgins back in the lineup for the first time since May 21, when Figgins reinjured his hamstring in his first game back from the DL.

"There's no doubt Figgy is a catalyst for some things we like to do," Scioscia said. "I think it's gonna make us a productive team when he gets settled into his game."

Figgins' game is getting on base and stealing bases to pressure the defense. He leads the team in both stolen bases and on-base percentage, and his 41 stolen bases last season was the third-best mark in the American League.

"I want to get the offense started from the first inning on," Figgins said. "I want to get on base and get in scoring position by stealing, or whoever's getting hit over to third. I like trying to keep the pressure on all night, whether we're down by five or up by five. I'm gonna keep running."

Figgins is not expected to need any days off to rest his hamstring and will play at least the next six games in a row.

"I don't think there's any reason why he can't play through Thursday," Scioscia said. "If anything comes up, we'll adjust, but Figgy's fine."

Third baseman Brandon Wood, who was batting just .125 in 29 games, was sent down to Triple-A Salt Lake.






