
ANAHEIM -- With the Triple-A Salt Lake Bees getting eliminated from the playoffs on Saturday, the Angels finally made a flurry of callups to fill their 40-man roster.



Right-handed relievers Jason Bulger and Kevin Jepsen were the first to get recalled as they joined the Angels on Saturday and Sunday, respectively.



The Angels then recalled three more players on Monday as catcher Bobby Wilson, corner infielder Matt Brown and utility player Freddy Sandoval all joined the Angels before their three-game series against the Yankees.



Wilson batted .312 with four homers and 45 RBIs with the Bees and played in one game with the Angels this season and got a hit in his only Major League at-bat on April 28.



Brown struggled with the Angels early this season as he batted just .077 in five games but hit .320 with 21 homers and 67 RBIs with Salt Lake.



"I had a good year," Brown said. "I felt good all year. I just keep on doing what I was doing from the beginning and stuck with it and I'm still feeling pretty good."



For Sandoval and Jepsen it's the first time that either player had been called up to the Majors. Sandoval batted .335 with 15 homers and 88 RBIs with the Bees and Jepsen was 1-3 with a 2.35 ERA in 15 games in Salt Lake.



Jepsen was still a little wide-eyed as the 24-year-old reliever had never been in the Angels clubhouse as an active player before.



"I still taking it all in, but it's awesome to be here," Jepsen said.



But Jepsen and Brown also had the opportunity to represent their country as both played for the United States in the 2008 Olympics in Beijing.



Brown made the most of it, as he batted .281 with a team-high 10 RBIs in Beijing and hit a three-run tying homer and key double in the 8-4 win in the bronze-medal Game.



"It was a good experience," Brown said. "It was good competition over there and felt like a playoff atmosphere. It benefited me even more to play over there."



Jepsen made four appearances out of the bullpen and tossed 5 2/3 scoreless innings, giving up only three hits. Jepsen had the team's only save in a 4-2 win over Chinese Taipei.



"China was a little different with a different culture and all that," Jepsen said. "But being in the Olympics was amazing and something I'll remember for the rest of my life."



Brown echoed Jepsen's sentiment as he said he never imagined that as a baseball player he would have the opportunity to win a bronze medal.



"It's crazy to think that I won an Olympic medal," Brown said. "I don't know if it's sunk in yet but it's definitely a cool experience."






