
ARLINGTON -- The Angels bullpen took another hit when Bret Prinz was placed on the 15-day disabled list with a right-shoulder sprain after Sunday's game. Chris Bootcheck was called up from Triple-A Salt Lake to take his place.

Right-hander Kevin Gregg, the dedicated long man in the 'pen, is currently in the rotation in the place of injured starter Kelvim Escobar. With the club opening a three-game series in Texas on Monday, followed by another three games in Oakland, the Angels couldn't afford to carry through short-handed.

"We could not even go a week without getting some help," manager Mike Scioscia said.

Prinz agreed.

"You can't go with a short 'pen playing here in Texas," the right-hander said, adding he felt the pain behind his shoulder blade after throwing a slider to the Royals' Mike Sweeney.

Right-hander Bootcheck will join left-hander Jake Woods as a second reliever who can go long until Gregg returns to the bullpen, probably next week, when Escobar comes off the DL. The addition of Bootcheck allows the Angels to maintain the structure of the 'pen and not force someone such as Scot Shields out of his spot in the late innings.

"It is not so much having innings; you want to have innings there," Scioscia said. "If someone is to set up [closer Francisco Rodriguez] you don't want to use those roles somewhere else."

Prinz, who was acquired from the Yankees on March 29 in exchange for catcher Wil Nieves, said he has not had pain in his shoulder before and is confident he will return when he is eligible to come off the DL on April 26 in New York.

In three relief appearances for the Angels this season, Prinz is 0-1 with a 3.00 ERA. Bootcheck allowed two runs on five hits over 5 2/3 innings to pick up the win in his lone appearance April 7 at Salt Lake this season.

Next step: Escobar threw a bullpen session on Monday, his second since being placed on the 15-day DL with a right-elbow strain. Escobar will make a rehab start in Modesto on Thursday, when the Rancho Cucamonga Quakes face the A's Class A affiliate.

If Escobar does not suffer any setbacks and holds course, he will make his first start this season when the Angels host the Mariners on April 19.

In action: Lou Merloni got the start at third base in the series opener with the Rangers on Monday. It was the first start of the season for Merloni, who has appeared in one game as a late-inning replacement.

"We've got to get Lou some at-bats," Scioscia said.

It was the second game on the bench for Robb Quinlan, who also sat in place of Maicer Izturis on Saturday.

Getting closer: Dallas McPherson is making progress at Triple-A, where Scioscia said his young slugger is going through "his Spring Training. McPherson sat out most of camp with a herniated disk in his lower back and was optioned to Salt Lake to get playing time.

His stats are not spectacular, but Scioscia said McPherson's back feels fine and he's demonstrating good bat speed and running the bases well. McPherson is eligible to be called up from his assignment Friday, but Scioscia would not say if the rookie is ready.

"He could come quickly, but it has to go at its own pace," Scioscia said. "We're not going to put a date on it."

Roughed up: Left-hander Joe Torres gave up three runs on five hits in two innings pitching for Rancho Cucamonga in his first action since 2003. Torres was the Angels' first-round draft choice in 2000, selected 10th overall.

On deck: The Angels will play the second game of the three-game series with the Rangers on Tuesday at Ameriquest Field. Right-hander John Lackey will face Texas right-hander Chris Young. Game time is 5:05 p.m. PT.








