
ARLINGTON -- The Kendry Morales era began Tuesday in the latest attempt to inject some life into the Angels offense.

Signed on Dec. 1, 2004, to a six-year, $6 million deal, the former Cuban phenom has been highly touted for his ability to swing a bat. He didn't have to wait to prove his mettle, either, when he started at first base for the Angels on Tuesday night.

"Kendry is swinging the bat well right now and we're a little limited on some of our options," manager Mike Scioscia said of Morales, who singled in his first Major League at-bat and then drilled a two-run homer in his second.

Entering Tuesday, the Angels trailed in the wake of a six-game losing streak and were 11 games under the .500 mark. They had scored three runs or fewer in 12 of their previous 20 games and had been hit by injuries. Starting center fielder Darin Erstad has been out since May 1, first baseman Casey Kotchman is recovering from mononucleosis and Garret Anderson has been slowed by a left hamstring strain and strained left arch.

Those in the lineup have also struggled, leading to an on-base percentage that ranks last in the American League and slugging percentage, batting average and runs scored just a tick better at 13th.

Morales joins Howie Kendrick, Mike Napoli, Tommy Murphy and Dallas McPherson as 2006 callups who might be able to impact the lineup, although Kendrick has since returned to Triple-A Salt Lake. Morales, who started his pro career last year at Class A Rancho Cucamonga, has started out slowly at each level as he adjusts to superior pitching.

"Before I got to the Dominican [Republic after defecting from Cuba], I hadn't played in a year and a half. That really affected me playing winter ball," Morales said through an interpreter. "Then when I got to Rancho I hadn't played a whole lot in order to get my groove and everything. When I went to Double-A, it was an adjustment. In Triple-A, it was the same thing. I don't know what to attribute that to."

Morales established his credentials by hitting .330 during his career in Cuba. During the 2002-03 season, Morales hit .391 with nine homers and 42 RBIs for Industriales and then starred in the Baseball World Cup by hitting a grand slam as Cuba claimed the gold medal with a victory in the final over Taiwan.

Possibly more impressive is that Morales needed nine attempts to defect from Cuba. When Morales finally got out, he had to establish residency in the Dominican and become a citizen there before gaining legal entrance to the U.S.

Morales's mom lives in Miami, but the rest of his family is still in Cuba. Morales said he calls there frequently to speak to his grandparents and is occasionally sad that he's been unable to return.

"I wouldn't say it's more difficult, only because I got an opportunity in this country. I appreciate it very much," Morales said. "I do feel like I have a home. I go train in the Dominican Republic in the winter time. To me that's going home right now. I'm pleased about how things worked out."

Guiding hands: Morales played as many as eight sports while growing up in Cuba but concentrated on baseball at the urging of his father.

"I give all the credit to my father because he actually forced me to play baseball. He made me play baseball," Morales said of Rafael Morales, a catcher who died when Kendry was 8 years old. "Then a coach named Luis Suarez, who for the last eight years has been teaching me how to hit, how to run the bases and overall the guy who has spent more time on any field than anybody else."

Progressing: Bartolo Colon threw a 35-pitch simulated game Tuesday afternoon and while the right-hander did not suffer any setbacks, the Angels will have him throw a second simulated game Saturday.

"It wasn't quite as crisp as his last bullpen [session]," Scioscia said. "It comes down to repeating pitches. If he had gone out there and blown us away, maybe we would have moved him further along. But that wasn't the case. It is more realistic for him to continue the progression and hopefully his command will be good and we can elevate his pitch count."

Colon went 0-2 with a 7.07 ERA in his three April starts before heading to the disabled list with shoulder trouble.

Trainer's room: Maicer Izturis (left hamstring strain) ran the bases Tuesday and could go out on a rehab assignment as soon as this weekend when Salt Lake plays in Las Vegas, Scioscia said. Erstad (sore right ankle) also worked out, but no date has been set for his return.

Asides: Vladimir Guerrero increased his hitting streak against the Rangers to 41 games with a solo homer in the first inning. ... Anderson played in his 1,659th game Tuesday, three shy of Brian Downing's franchise mark. ... Orlando Cabrera extended his streak of reaching base safely to 25 straight games with a first-inning double.

On the farm: Right-hander Jered Weaver continued to shine at Salt Lake with a shutout on Monday. Weaver allowed five hits and struck out eight without walking a batter to extend his scoreless streak to 27 1/3 innings, tying Kevin Gregg for the Salt Lake franchise record.

On deck: The Angels will conclude their three-game series with the Rangers at 11:05 a.m. PT on Wednesday.  Right-hander Jeff Weaver will face Texas right-hander Robinson Tejeda. Gregg will start against the Orioles on Friday at home.






