
ANAHEIN -- Angels manager Mike Scioscia knows a thing or two about catching after spending 13 seasons in the big leagues behind the plate with the Dodgers.



So that's why when he talks, Angels catchers Jeff Mathis and Mike Napoli are all ears.



"We listen because he's been there and done that and was good at it," Mathis said. "It's a big advantage for us for sure."



Scioscia lends advice to the two catchers, rotating them based on pitching matchups to keep them fresh. Scioscia said the biggest thing the two players need to worry about is catching.



"Both of those guys wouldn't be here if they couldn't catch," Scioscia said. "That's their No. 1 job description. Because both of them have been so good behind the plate it gives us options."



While Mathis and Napoli have been solid behind the plate, they have struggled at the plate, as they are batting .208 and .212, respectively entering Wednesday's game. Scioscia said he knows they will come out of their slumps, but in the meantime they must focus on defense.



"If they don't do their job behind the plate, they don't bring any value to our pitchers and get the results they need," Scioscia said.



Napoli, who has a team-leading 10 home runs in 38 games, said the ability to differentiate catching from hitting is the key when you're in a slump.



"It's real important to separate your at-bats from your defense, and I think we both do that," Napoli said. "We both can handle the pitching staff."



Mathis has started 31 games this season and has been the better defensive catcher, according to Scioscia. But Scioscia said Napoli has played much better defensively in his last 10 starts and has made just two errors this season.



Even though the two players want to play every day, they said they know alternating is best for the team. And there are no hard feelings between the two because they both are good friends and roommates.



The two first played together back in 2002 with the Class A Cedar Rapids Kernels.



"We've been good friends ever since we've come in pro ball," Mathis said. "It's just fun to be together at this level."






