
ST. PETERSBURG -- Curtis Pride was called up by the Angels on Monday night, but it presented a bit of a quandary.

His primary obligation lies with his employer, and every player wants to reach the Bigs, but Pride also was named to the U.S. squad that will compete in an Olympic qualifying tournament next month in Cuba.

"I had mixed emotions because I got invited to  play for Team USA," Pride said. "I was supposed to leave Aug. 16 to play for Team USA to help them qualify for the Olympics in Cuba, but I got called here. It would have been an honor to go to Cuba to help Team USA for Olympic qualifying."

Pride was a three-sport star at William & Mary College in Virginia, where he also played basketball and soccer. He was enough of a standout soccer player to attract the attention of former U.S. coach Bruce Arena, who invited him to tryout for the national team at the time.

Professional responsibility outweighed national duty, though, and Pride will be called on to provide a left-handed bat off the bench for the Angels and add depth to the outfield.

Pride, who is 95 percent deaf, began his career in the Minors in 1986 and made his Major League debut with the Expos in 1993. He's spent more time on buses than in airplanes with 1,274 games in the Minors and 399 at the Major League level, but enthusiasm for the 37-year-old has not diminished at all.

"I feel I still can play a couple of more years," Pride said. "I'm just happy to be here and be able to help the team in any way I can."

Pride was hitting .318 with seven homers and 41 RBIs with Salt Lake this season.

Making do: With injuries to Dallas McPherson and Casey Kotchman this season, and Chone Figgins forced into center field to take Darin Erstad's slot, the Angels have been forced to go with a bit of a patchwork infield.

Maicer Izturis started his 29th game at third base Tuesday, which leads the Angels at the position this season while Howie Kendrick started at first. Izturis is batting .344 with 16 runs scored in his last 16 games entering Tuesday, but he's looked more unsteady in the field.

"At times he has missed some plays, but the thing we are dealing with this season is guys not playing positions they are familiar with," Scioscia said. "Third base as an organization has been a tough position to fill. Figgy did a good job over there last year, and Izzy has done fine and [Robb Quinlan] was OK but it is not a natural position for any of those guys."

Kendrick has also played third base for the Angels this season but is still seen primarily as a backup for second baseman Adam Kennedy, as long as the veteran remains with the team. The Angels are hoping Kendrick will make his presence felt at the plate.

"We want to get him enough at-bats to see if he can contribute offensively because he can swing the bat," Scioscia said. "We also want Q because he can help. The corners throughout the whole organization are a little thin in depth."

Ready to go: Kelvim Escobar threw a bullpen session on Tuesday and said his elbow still feels a little sore, but he will be able to make his start in Boston on Friday. The right-hander developed a blister in his last start when he allowed three runs on nine hits over seven innings for a no-decision in Kansas City.

Contributing: Mike Napoli is in the middle of his first prolonged slump of his rookie season, with just nine hits in 51 at-bats in the month of July, entering Tuesday.

That pales in comparison to his hot start after being called up May 4, when he hit .301 with eight homers in his first 113 at-bats. But he is still maintaining his tight grip on the starting catcher's job, as he's played a central role in the team's climb back into the race.

"There are a number of things catching up but even in his soft time he is getting on base and scoring runs," Scioscia said. "It is a great sign when a kid is not swinging the bat well but he is able to get on base and help the offense."

Time off: Garret Anderson was out of Tuesday's lineup and will likely miss Wednesday as well. With the club getting a day off Thursday, Scioscia hopes to rest Anderson's sore left hamstring and have him available for the upcoming series with the Red Sox. Vladimir Guerrero started at designated hitter on Tuesday.

"Garret is not ready to get on the field and this gets Vlad off his feet," Scioscia said. Anderson has not started in left field since July 14.

On the farm: Joe Saunders (10-4) allowed two eighth-inning runs to take the loss against Tucson on Monday. The left-hander gave up a total of three runs on eight hits with three strikeouts over eight innings. Erick Aybar went 3-for-4 with a double.

On deck: The Angels will conclude their series with the Devil Rays on Wednesday at 9:15 a.m. PT with right-hander Bartolo Colon set to face Tampa Bay left-hander Casey Fossum. The club will be off Thursday before starting a weekend series in Boston on Friday.






