
Vladimir Guerrero remains the leading vote-getter among American League outfielders, but time is running short for fans to give the slugger an Angels teammate in the starting lineup for the July 10 All-Star Game in San Francisco.

Shortstop Orlando Cabrera is fourth among AL shortstops in the balloting, trailing the Yankees' Derek Jeter, the Tigers' Carlos Guillen and the Orioles' Miguel Tejada.

First baseman Casey Kotchman, outfielder Gary Matthews Jr. and third baseman Chone Figgins are not listed among the leaders at their positions, even though they have emerged with All-Star caliber performances. As for rookie sensation Reggie Willits, he is not on the ballot among AL outfielders.

Fans can cast their votes for starters up to 25 times with the Monster 2007 All-Star Online Ballot at MLB.com and all 30 club sites until Thursday at 8:59 p.m. PT. Fans will again be given the opportunity to cast an All-Star vote immediately following the 2007 "MLB All-Star Game Selection Show" presented by Chevrolet, which will be televised by Turner Sports on Sunday, July 1. Baseball fans around the world will be able to select the final player on each All-Star team via the Monster.com 2007 All-Star Final Vote.
Selecting the rosters isn't the end of the fun in 2007, either. Concluding the All-Star balloting process, fans will have the opportunity to participate in the official voting for the Ted Williams Most Valuable Player presented by Chevrolet at the All-Star Game via the Monster.com 2007 All-Star Game MVP Vote at MLB.com. 

The All-Star Game will be televised nationally by FOX Sports and televised around the world by Major League Baseball International. ESPN Radio will provide exclusive national radio coverage, while MLB.com will offer extensive online coverage and MLB Radio will have exclusive play-by-play coverage of the game on the Internet.

Cabrera has been among the AL leaders throughout the first half in batting average, hits and doubles, while his defense has been remarkably consistent and, at times, dazzling.

Kotchman's torrid hitting since mid-May vaulted him into the top 10 in the AL in average, slugging and on-base percentage. His defense has been Gold Glove quality, saving runs for his pitching staff with his aggressive style and sure hands.



No player in the league has been more versatile than Matthews, who has handled the leadoff and cleanup spots in the Angels' order with equal skill while running down balls in the gaps with his tremendous instincts and speed, giving the Angels a third viable Gold Glove candidate.

Figgins, after missing the first month of the season with fractures of the right index and middle fingers, caught fire with the bat, raising his average from .133 to .306 entering Tuesday's game. He had a six-hit game while driving home the winning run with a walk-off hit, the first player to do that since 1969. It came amid a streak in which Figgins hit safely in 21 of 22 games with 15 steals and 20 runs scored.
Willits, pressed into regular duty because of a hip injury suffered by Garret Anderson, has ranked among the AL leaders in batting, on-base percentage and steals while playing excellent defense at all three outfield spots.






