
TORONTO -- Brendan Donnelly just wanted to get to the clubhouse and forget
the pitch he just threw. The problem was that he was stuck in a mob of
jumping Blue Jays.

The wild pitch that the Angels' reliever threw with bases loaded in the 10th
inning scored Russ Adams and gave Toronto a 3-2 win on Wednesday night at Rogers
Centre -- prompting a celebration at home plate.

"They were hugging, celebrating and one of them had my jersey in the middle
and I couldn't get away," Donnelly said. "I didn't want to celebrate with
them."

With the loss, the Angels (59-42) dropped their first series since losing
two of three against Boston on June 3-5. It also cut the Halos' lead in the American League West to
just four games ahead of Oakland.

Donnelly (6-3) entered the game in the 10th inning and immediately allowed a
single to Adams, who moved to second on a sacrifice bunt by Frank
Catalanotto. Donnelly intentionally walked Vernon Wells and then gave up an
infield hit to Aaron Hill to load the bags.

Angels manager Mike Scioscia brought the infield in and moved center fielder
Steve Finley right behind second base. The plan was to induce a ground ball
to set up a double play or easily force a potential runner at home.

Donnelly threw a slider to Corey Koskie and the Angels never saw whether the fifth-infielder strategy might have worked against the Blue Jays (51-49).

"There was no miscommunication. It was just a slider down in the dirt that
took a hop," Donnelly said. "With the catchers we've got, we feel
comfortable throwing the ball wherever. That one was just a little off to
the left and it hit with a slider spin and kicked out even further. It
kicked just enough away where there as no play at home either."

Catcher Bengie Molina tracked down the ball, but Adams slid across the plate
well ahead of the throw.

"The last thing you want to do is get thrown out on a passed ball -- with
Koskie at the plate, one out and the bases loaded," said Adams. "It was just
one of those instinct-type plays, and it bounced high enough and far enough
away from him. I knew it was going to just roll toward the backstop and I
could get there."

The errant pitch followed the efforts of starters Bartolo Colon and Toronto's
Josh Towers, who each turned in a strong outing to cancel the other out.
Colon allowed just two runs in seven innings and struck out five.

"I felt like it was an unbelievable game today -- on both sides," said
Towers. "We pitched pretty well. I know Bartolo and those guys pitched
extremely well. It just couldn't have gotten any closer of a game."

Neither starter earned a decision after holding the offenses at bay. But
quieting the Angels' offense hasn't been a big issue lately.

The Halos have managed only five runs in their last 32 innings and stranded
10 runners in their second straight loss to Toronto and third overall.

"We've been down this road before. We had a lot of chances tonight,"
Scioscia said. "Guys got in scoring position and we didn't quite get it done
like we needed to tonight. We had some guys up there that are very good in
the clutch and they just had a tough night tonight."

The Angels had two on with one out in the fifth inning, but Towers forced
Darin Erstad to hit into an inning-ending double play. With runners on first
and third and one out in the eighth inning, Finley struck out swinging and
Molina grounded out to end the threat.

"We're kind of in one of those funks right now where we can't piece it
together," Erstad said. "We'll have a couple guys have a couple good games
and other guys won't. It's just not rolling right now. We'll grind through
it and we'll be all right."

The only offense lately has seemed to come from Vladimir Guerrero, who has
hit four of the Angels' last five homer runs -- over a span of 14 games.

In the first inning, Guerrero popped a pitch from Towers into foul territory
down the first-base line. The ball bounced in and out of Toronto first
baseman Eric Hinske's glove and Guerrero took advantage of the error five
pitches later. He sent a 3-2 offering from Towers to right field for
his 19th homer of the season.

Towers allowed just one earned run in 6 2/3 innings -- an RBI single to
Erstad that scored Adam Kennedy in the third inning. Toronto's right-hander
gave up five hits and struck out two. Miguel Batista (5-3) earned the win
after pitching a scoreless ninth and 10th, working out of a bases-loaded jam in the latter frame.

"We had some opportunities and [Towers] shut the door a couple times on us,"
Scioscia said. "He wasn't getting real fancy -- he was really just moving the
ball in and out and changing speeds. He pitched a strong ballgame for them.

"We had every chance to win this ballgame and on the offensive side we just
couldn't get it going when we needed."






