
ANAHEIM -- After scoring just one run in a three-game series against the Dodgers over the weekend, the Angels tinkered with their lineup yet again on Monday.



Outfielder Garret Anderson sat for the second day in a row and Juan Rivera took his place in left field. It marked the first time since May 24-25 that Rivera started two consecutive games.



"It feels good to be out there two days in a row," said Rivera, who went 2-for-4 with a run scored on Sunday against the Dodgers.


Anderson, who is batting .197 with one home run and eight RBIs in his past 20 games, sat for two consecutive contests for the first time this season. But Angels manager Mike Scioscia said he's not concerned with the way Anderson is playing right now.



"We're going to let him get a little air out and regroup a little bit," Scioscia said. "Sometimes when you watch a game you get a little different perception. I don't think I've ever seen a player who doesn't try too much. I think he's pressing."



Anderson, who is batting .255 this season, is one of only two players in the Majors who have batted at least .280 in each of the past 13 seasons. Boston's Manny Ramirez is the other.



Anderson also owns the Angels records for games played (1,943), runs (988), hits (2,777), doubles (474), total bases (3,609) and RBIs (1,243).



Even though Anderson has struggled by his own standards this season, Scioscia said he's "not giving up" on Anderson, who has made 13 consecutive Opening Day starts for the Angels.



"Garret knows the importance of the lineup with him in the middle of it," Scioscia said. "He knows his importance to the club."



In another lineup change, the Angels slid first baseman Casey Kotchman down to the No. 8 spot in the lineup, two spots lower than his customary sixth spot.



Kotchman had batted eighth three times this season prior to Monday and was batting .400 in that spot. Scioscia said moving Kotchman down was to try to find new groupings for the Angels' struggling offense.



"Kotch has been consistent," Scioscia said. "But we're trying to get some groupings and get things that are going to work and make our lineup deep."






