
ANAHEIM -- Angels outfielder Vladimir Guerrero will sit out Thursday night's game against the Royals due to the swelling of his right index finger. It is expected that he will return to the starting lineup Friday night against Seattle.

The problem is one that Guerrero says he deals with every season, is not serious and doesn't affect his play during the year.

According to Guerrero, he was hit on the finger by a pitch back in 1996, when he was playing in Class A ball. Since that time, at some point during the season, once he's taken a lot of swings, the finger swells up.

"Usually it happens after about 100 at-bats," Guerrero said, adding, "This year, it happened a little earlier. I don't know why."

It's a problem that did not require any X-rays or medical treatment; rather, Guerrero treats it by taking a day off to rest it. While the swelling doesn't go down, it becomes manageable for the rest of the season.

"Once it swells up," Guerrero revealed, "it doesn't go down. I've lived with it all my career."

Manager Mike Scioscia explained it as also being partly due to Guerrero not wearing batting gloves.

"He doesn't wear gloves, just some tape and stickum, and he generates so much force with that bat," Scioscia said. "If there is too much stickum or pine tar and his hand can't release, it pulls the fingers.

"It's like if you're on turf, and your foot sticks when you go to turn, and you tweak your knee. It's the same type feeling."

No one expects this to be a problem, and, in fact, if needed, Guerrero could have started Thursday night. He was available to pinch-hit.

"If this was a different situation, he possibly could have played," said Scioscia. "But you want to error on the side of caution."

With the Angels offense performing as well as it has, the team can afford to give Guerrero the day off, but Guerrero does view the way others are performing as a sign that he can rest.

"I don't think about the offense or how well everyone is doing," he said. "I just want to play."

As for the finger itself, according to Guerrero, once the season ends, the swelling starts going down. Then sometime next season, he'll deal with this all over again.






