
ST. PETERSBURG -- A late August trip to Tampa Bay this weekend offers a sort of homecoming for two Angels.

Utility man Chone Figgins and infielder Casey Kotchman, who both played high school ball in the Tampa Bay area, get the rare chance to spend time with friends and family in-between three games against the Devil Rays.

"Everybody's here," said Figgins, who played baseball at Brandon High just outside of Tampa. "And then I have family from Georgia, so they come down to see everybody and watch a couple of games."

Figgins, whose permanent home is in Tampa, said he enjoyed the chance to sleep in his own bed Thursday night. He said the only drawback is the 45-minute drive he had to take from St. Petersburg across Tampa Bay.

"You lose maybe an hour sleep doing it," Figgins said. "It's tough, but it's worth it. I get to eat mom's cooking."

Figgins singled and stole a base before he scored the opening run Friday night.

Kotchman was born in St. Petersburg and played baseball about 20 minutes from Tropicana Field at Seminole High. It is his first time playing in St. Petersburg against the Rays.

"It's good to see some coaches and people I haven't seen in a while," Kotchman said.

Surgery for McPherson: Third baseman Dallas McPherson has decided to have surgery after doctors found a bone spur in his left hip. McPherson will have arthroscopic surgery performed on the hip by Dr. Thomas Byrd in Nashville, Tenn.

"We're hoping he's going to be ready to go [by Spring Training], but we're not going to know for sure," said Angels manager Mike Scioscia.

The rookie has missed 42 games since heading to the disabled list on July 8.

No turf for you: Garret Anderson, who has been bothered by a lower back strain and patellar tendinitis in his left knee, started at DH on Friday. Asked if Anderson would play the field this series, Scioscia said, "We'll see how he feels. This turf doesn't agree with a lot of people and Garret's one of them. We'll just take it one day at a time."

Anderson played the outfield in Thursday's finale against Baltimore for the first time since Aug. 9. He struck out and singled up the middle in his first two at-bats.

This and that: The switch-hitting Figgins got the start in center field over Steve Finley with Rays lefty Casey Fossum on the mound Friday. "We want to try to get [Figgins'] bat in there," said Scioscia. "We've struggled against left handed pitching. We want to try to get our matchups." ... Orlando Cabrera stole his 16th base in the first inning just after Figgins stole his 44th base Friday. ... Vladimir Guerrero is one home run shy of 300 for his career.

On deck: The Halos take on Tampa Bay twice more to close out a six-game road trip. Right-hander Paul Byrd (9-8, 3.92 ERA) will start against Rays righty Doug Waechter (4-8, 5.03 ERA) in Saturday's 3:15 p.m. PT matchup.






