
BALTIMORE -- Owners of the best record in baseball and winners of nine of their last 10 games, the Angels likely aren't expected to pull off any blockbuster trades as the July 31 non-waiver Trade Deadline approaches.

That doesn't mean the Angels will sit quietly by, either, as manager Mike Scioscia pointed out on Sunday, and if they are presented with a deal attractive enough to pull the trigger, there very well could be some new Angels by the end of the week.

"If something would happen that [general manager] Tony [Reagins] feels comfortable with, that's going to make us better now and in the future, that happened to be creating depth in an area of strength right now, he'll do it," Scioscia said. "It'll make sense to do it. I don't know if there's one role player or anybody out there that we're specifically targeting, or what his role would be, but I think when we're firing on near capacity, we have a team that's versatile, we have a team that can come in and do things."




Scioscia hinted that the team, if anything, would be looking for a complementary player, not saying whether that player would be better suited to come on in offense or defense. He did say, however, that he would have no problem with extra pitching help.

"Its tough to say, if you're trying to create depth, what area specifically to apply it to, but if these guys will do what they're capable of doing, we have a team that is going to be championship-caliber," he said. "I don't think there's a manager in the game that doesn't go to sleep thinking about one thing and wake up thinking about one thing, and that's pitching."

Angels starters lead the Major Leagues in both wins (51) and innings pitched (655 1/3) and are averaging 6.1 innings per start. The rotation is third in the American League with a 3.82 ERA and has held opponents to four hits or fewer 13 times this season.

Nonetheless, whether it be in the bullpen or in the rotation, Scioscia was adamant that a team can never have enough pitching, referencing Spring Training this season, when it looked as though the club had six Major League starters coming into camp. He did say, however, that the price would have to be right in order for the Angels to pull off a big trade this week.

"We have some versatility, where we have some guys who could be moved around in some roles," he said. "Pitching depth is something that I think you can never have enough of, but at times, acquiring that piece becomes very difficult, and it might end up costing you more than its worth."








