
ANAHEIM -- Before the game, the Angels received good news on the progress of injured infielders Howie Kendrick and Erick Aybar, who both came out feeling well after doing light running drills.



But it was during the game that Angels got even better news from their two replacements -- shortstop Brandon Wood and second baseman Sean Rodriguez -- who combined to deliver three home runs, five hits and four RBIs in Monday's 12-1 blowout win over the Yankees at Angel Stadium to reduce their magic number in the American League West to two.



Wood and Rodriguez entered the game with just three combined home runs and nine combined RBIs in 79 total games between the two players.



But their power surge at the plate helped fuel the Angels on a night where the team left just two runners in scoring position.



"It's good seeing our kids get comfortable in the box," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "Brandon Wood and Sean Rodriguez are important to us right now. They're doing the job in the field and it's good to see them do well at the plate."



The two infielders helped starter Jon Garland, who settled down after a rocky first inning when he allowed three hits and a walk, but the right-hander got out of the jam by allowing just one run.



Garland settled down after the first as he allowed just two hits and no runs over his next six innings. In all, Garland threw seven innings, allowing one run on six hits with four strikeouts.



"Jon pitched with his back against the wall for a good portion of that game and he pitched well," Scioscia said.



Garland was aided by a six-run sixth inning by the Angels that began with a solo home run by Rodriguez, who entered the game with one home run on the season. The Angels added their second run of the inning on a run-scoring groundout by Mark Teixeira before Vladimir Guerrero hit a two-run home run to blow the game open much to the delight of the crowd of 41,025.



"The game was close for a while but we definitely had a good run there in the sixth inning," Scioscia said. "It's important to score runs and let our pitchers pitch a little bit."



It was Guerrero's 24th homer of the season and came off right-hander Dan Giese, who relieved starter Carl Pavano, who was forced to exit after 5 1/3 innings. Pavano allowed five earned runs on six hits while striking out two and walking one to get pegged with his first loss in four starts this season.



Giese allowed two more runs after Guerrero's home run on Wood's two-run single. But it was a benches-clearing scuffle that marked the inning with Torii Hunter and Ivan Rodriguez being ejected after a shoving match at home plate.



"It was an unfortunate incident," Scioscia said. "You had two great ballplayers and veterans. Pudge is a Hall of Fame player and plays clean but I think he got a little frustrated and shoved Torii a little bit and Torii took exception to it."



The Angels added three more runs in the seventh inning on a run-scoring double by Guerrero and a two-run double by Gary Matthews Jr., who replaced Hunter in center field after the ejection.



And then in the eighth it was Wood who homered for the second time in the game. Earlier in the game he hit the go-ahead home run in the third inning on a solo shot off Pavano before hitting another solo home run in the eighth off Chris Britton.



It marked the first multi-home run game for Wood and his three RBIs set a career high.



"It felt good," said Wood, who went 3-for-4. "I had a couple good pitches to hit and they happened to go over the fence. Hopefully it's not the last time."



With the win, the Angels can now clinch their fourth American League West crown in five years on Tuesday with a win over the Yankees and a loss by the Rangers against the Mariners.



But it's something that is not weighing on the Angels, especially because they have a 17 1/2 game lead over Texas with 19 games to play.



"We have a pretty good lead so I don't think anybody has any pressure to get it done," Wood said. "I think it's just going to happen. The way Sosh talks about it is that every day is a different day and you go to day to day and you don't worry about it."






