
CHICAGO -- Scot Shields reported no news is good news after the reliever spent about three hours in a Toronto hospital late Monday/early Tuesday for a battery of tests following persistent chest pain.

Shields had been experiencing the pain since Friday and was advised to go to the hospital after a pair of EMTs examined him in the visiting trainer's room at Rogers Centre. Blood tests, X-rays and an EKG were all normal.

"It was a pain in my chest and right around my heart and it scared me," Shields said. "I tried to kid around about it a little and the trainers said, 'Let's get it looked at.' The tests showed nothing."

Shields said he does not have a family history for heart disease and he could not pinpoint any specific event that may have caused the pain. He also said he did not experience dizziness or any other symptoms.

Entering Tuesday's series opener with the White Sox, Shields had posted a 1-2 mark with a 1.02 ERA in 14 appearances while holding opponents to a .194 batting average.

Shields has not been put on any restrictions and is available to pitch but has been put on medication for indigestion. He will visit team physician Craig Milhouse when the Angels return to California.

"As far as I'm concerned, this is behind me," Shields said. "I knew I was going to be fine, but when I really knew, it was a relief."

Shields flew to Chicago on Tuesday morning accompanied by assistant trainer Adam Nevala.

Need tests: Casey Kotchman was placed on the 15-day disabled list Tuesday with a lingering viral syndrome and Dallas McPherson was recalled from Triple-A Salt Lake.

Kotchman was initially diagnosed with mononucleosis following his physical examination at the beginning of Spring Training. Designated the starting first baseman from the opening of camp, Kotchman responded by hitting .421 and leading the team with 15 RBIs in Cactus League play.

But in the regular season, Kotchman has been unable to shake the constant feeling of fatigue. Through 29 games, he is hitting just .152 with two doubles a homer and six RBIs. He's also been sleeping every chance he gets.

Kotchman will leave for California on Wednesday morning and see Milhouse on Friday, when he will get a series of tests to gain a clearer picture of his condition.

"It is hard for me to admit that something is not right. I try to be optimistic a lot in life as far as your well being and your health and be optimistic," Kotchman said. "It is hard to admit you're hurt, and right now that is how I feel and there is not an improvement."

The window for recovery for mononucleosis can be as long as six months to a year, so the club opted to sit him down.

"Casey has to get his stamina back," manager Mike Scioscia said. "It started to cut into his practice and it started to have an effect on him being the player he knows he can be."

Power potential: With Kotchman out of action, McPherson started at first base Tuesday, marking the fifth different player at the position this season for the Angels.

It also marked the first time McPherson has played the position at the Major League level. He has appeared at first five times this season at Salt Lake and played once there this spring.

But McPherson, whose primary position is still third, was not called up for his defense. McPherson recently put together a streak in which he homered in four straight games. And despite McPherson's 49 strikeouts in 102 Minor League at-bats, the club is looking for someone to add punch to a lineup that was hitting .205 on its current road trip entering Tuesday.

"We need to generate some offense," Scioscia said. "We'll definitely give Mac a look and see if he is going to carry what he's been doing in the Minor Leagues up here."

McPherson is realistic about his return to the Angels. He struggled at times last season and has yet to consistently show the power at the big-league level that prompted the Angels to let Troy Glaus go via free agency after the 2004 season.

He's been looking at video of his swing from the 2004 season, when he hit 40 homers in two Minor League stops, to unlock some answers.

"I have to keep my strikeouts down and keep my walks up, but it is going to be a challenge," McPherson said. "I don't think I'm expected to be the savior of the team and I don't expect to be. I'll bat the ball around a little bit and let everything take care of itself. I'll just try to get back to some basic fundamentals with my swing."

Trainer's room: Darin Erstad had an MRI on Tuesday and the test revealed a bone bruise but no further damage to his right ankle. Surgery has been ruled out for now, but Erstad's return remains uncertain. Right-handed reliever Chris Bootcheck (left hamstring strain) was also evaluated in Chicago on Tuesday. Bartolo Colon (right shoulder inflammation) had the day off from workouts. Maicer Izturis (left hamstring strain) continued a light jogging program. All four players are on the disabled list.

On deck: The Angels will play the White Sox in the second game of the three-game series on Wednesday at 5:05 p.m. PT. Right-hander Ervin Santana will face Chicago rookie right-hander Charlie Haeger, who is starting in place of injured Jose Contreras. Kelvim Escobar will start against the White Sox on Thursday.






