
 Angels 4, Mariners 2 
at Peoria, Ariz. 
Thursday, March 5

Angels at the plate:  Catcher Jeff Mathis, who batted .300 against the Mariners, and .194 overall last season, doubled home two runs in the fourth inning. A double steal by Chone Figgins and Erick Aybar in the fifth led to the Angels' third run. Howie Kendrick hit his first home run, a prodigious shot to left field in the sixth inning off Seattle right-hander Chris Jakubauskas.













Mariners at the plate:  Right fielder Wladimir Balentien led off the second inning with a single to left field and eventually scored on a double play. Third baseman Matt Tuiasosopo, batting .345 entering the game, singled in the fourth inning. Designated hitter Chris Shelton took over the team lead in home runs, hitting his third of the spring in the seventh inning.


Angels on the mound:  Right-hander Shane Loux, a longshot to start the regular season in the rotation, worked a solid two innings, yielding an unearned run in the second inning. But the defense backed him with double plays in both innings he pitched. Right-hander Justin Speier tossed one scoreless inning of relief.

Mariners on the mound:  Starter Erik Bedard celebrated his 30th birthday with 2 2/3 scoreless innings. He escaped a two-on, one-out jam in the first inning and retired the last seven batters he faced. Bedard threw 47 pitches, 26 of them for strikes. Reliever Shawn Kelley absorbed the loss.

Cactus League records:  Mariners (4-1-1), Angels (6-1)

Up next:  The Angels face right-hander Tim Lincecum and the Giants on Friday at Tempe. Torii Hunter could be back in the lineup after skipping Thursday's game to nurse a tender hamstring.

The Mariners visit the Athletics on Friday with left-hander Jarrod Washburn looking to extend his scoreless inning streak, which currently stands at three. Right-hander Tyler Walker, finally recovered from a leg injury, makes his Cactus League debut. Also slated to pitch for Seattle are: LH Jose Lugo, RH Marwin Vega and RH David Aardsma. The game will be broadcast on KIRO 710 AM/97.3 FM.






