
The following is the third in a series of weekly stories on MLB.com examining each Major League club, position by position. Each Wednesday until Spring Training camps open, we'll preview a different position. Today: Middle infielders.

There will be little suspense concerning the competition in the middle of the infield this spring as the starting jobs have essentially been assigned.

Orlando Cabrera returns as the Angels' shortstop and team defensive captain, while Howie Kendrick gets the opportunity to shed his identity as prospect and become a full-time Major Leaguer as the team's second baseman.

The one question that remains is whether Kendrick will settle into the job and provide enough defense to compensate for the loss of Adam Kennedy. The Angels believe that he will.

"He's earned it," general manager Bill Stoneman said.

Kennedy was one of the few remaining links to the 2002 World Series titlists and supplied much of the team's defensive foundation. Never flashy but rarely out of position, Kennedy paired well with David Eckstein, who will be his teammate again in St. Louis, and later formed a solid double-play combo with Cabrera.

He did not win a Gold Glove, but manager Mike Scioscia nonetheless lobbied to anyone that would listen and maintained Kennedy was the best defensive second baseman in the American League. The 31-year-old now gets his chance to prove his skills in the Senior Circuit after signing a three-year, $10 million deal with the Cardinals.

The Angels are getting younger and also losing some experience in the process as they move Kendrick into the No. 1 slot on their depth chart at second base. But confidence is running much higher this time than previous moves that swapped a veteran for youth.

For one, Kendrick holds a set of offensive skills that has allowed him to post a .300 average or better in each of his five professional seasons. Granted, Kendrick had an overall .285 batting average with the Angels last season, but that includes a 3-for-26 stretch over the initial 10 games of his first Major League callup.

After the All-Star break, though, Kendrick hit .303 over 241 at-bats that included a 20-for-40 string upon his return to the Angels in July, a 16-game hitting streak from July 16-Aug. 6, which was the longest by a rookie in the AL last season, and a stretch of reaching base safely in nine straight plate appearances from Aug. 25-27.

It wasn't simply the numbers that impressed the Angels and confirmed their belief that Kendrick was their future second baseman. It was how he got there.

"Kendrick made the adjustments," Stoneman said. "He went down to [Triple-A] Salt Lake and worked on some things and came back with a better idea of what he needed to do."

That work rotated mostly around the breaking ball and specifically how pitchers used it to get him out.

"They started doing the same thing to me up here as they were doing down there," Kendrick said. "I just focused on slowing the game down and making adjustments to not swing at balls off the plate."

Kendrick also earned high marks for adjustments in the field as he moved to first base and started 42 games there, third highest on the club. By contrast, Kendrick started just 25 games at second last season, but the Angels were without a regular first baseman for most of 2006 and they wanted Kendrick's bat in the lineup in the second half of the season. He committed just two errors at a position he had never played.





Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim


&bull; Catchers: Halos solid behind plate
&bull; Corner IF: Fierce competition on tap
&bull; Middle IF: Kendrick joins Cabrera
&bull; Outfielders: Matthews in the middle
&bull; Starters: Solid five, plus Colon
&bull; Bullpen: Could be even stronger
&bull; DH/Bench: Hillenbrand provides options



That changes for 2007 when he moves back to second. Kendrick's double-play partner will be Cabrera, who had an uncharacteristically rough year in the field that underscored a rough season for the Angels overall.

Cabrera made 16 errors last season after committing just seven in 2005, when the Angels tied for the best fielding percentage in the Major Leagues. The team finished last in the AL in the category last season and Cabrera said that had a major impact.

"I think our defense was shady. Sometimes it was really, really bad," Cabrera said at the end of last season. "I can say, too, that the three elements we needed to be successful weren't there at the same time: pitching, hitting and defense. It was just a moment, probably a few games over two months, that we put it together but never consistently."

For his part offensively, Cabrera improved in his second season with the ballclub. He hit .282 and led the team with 95 runs scored and 45 doubles. Cabrera also batted third for much of the year and enjoyed a streak not seen in more than half a century.

Cabrera reached base safely by a hit, walk or hit by pitch in 63 straight games, which is the sixth highest all-time. Ted Williams set the record of 84 straight games in 1949.

Providing depth in the middle of the diamond will be two players who will have multiple duties this season. Maicer Izturis, who held down third base for much of last season, will back up at shortstop and second base in addition to third, while Chone Figgins will also be an option.

Additional depth will likely be answered by team needs. Erick Aybar is the leading candidate if the Angels opt for defense, specifically at shortstop, but he will be challenged for the one of the last spots on the roster by players that offer different sets of tools.

One of those will be Dallas McPherson, who can play third and first, but adds the power that Aybar cannot. Others included in the fight for the last remaining roster spots will be Reggie Willits, Tommy Murphy, Curtis Pride and Nick Gorneault. All are outfielders, but Willits, for one, can match Aybar's speed and could get the nod over the shortstop if the Angels were to include McPherson.






