
ANAHEIM -- Another day has brought a bit more perspective to an issue that may prove as critical as any the Angels will make this season.

Jered Weaver has yet to be moved out of the rotation and to prove that he remains part of the club's immediate plans, the rookie right-hander took batting practice Wednesday in preparation for a two-city road trip that will take the Angels to a pair of National League parks.

"I haven't done this in about three years," Weaver said while taking some light cuts in the clubhouse. "This should be fun."

Weaver last hit during his senior year at Simi Valley High School when he played some third base. He last had regular at-bats during his sophomore year when he was a catcher.

The Angels have yet to announce whether or not Weaver will be bumped from the rotation to make room for Bartolo Colon, whose return from the disabled list is imminent. Possibilities include sending Weaver to Triple-A Salt Lake, moving his brother Jeff Weaver to the bullpen or trading a pitcher. Ervin Santana continues to be linked with Tampa Bay in a potential swap for outfielder Carl Crawford.

"It's not that simple in terms of whom you'll talk about in a trade, who you wouldn't or whom you'd prefer not to move in a trade. What you do is also look at the return if you talk about a trade, look at what you're getting back," said general manager Bill Stoneman.  

"Sometimes people look at it as a standpoint of just deleting somebody, sometimes people look at this as a standpoint of just acquiring somebody and that's what makes trading very difficult."

While moving a pitcher would solve one problem it could create another and potentially larger one. The strength of the team is built on pitching, specifically the rotation. Colon will remain a question mark until he proves that his sore right shoulder is fully healed, which places a premium on retaining quality arms.

"It is always prudent to keep as many starting pitchers as possible in the organization," pitching coach Bud Black said. "You want to keep them fresh and keep them ready."

Jered is doing what he can to keep his name in the mix. He's gone 4-0 with a 1.37 ERA in four starts with four walks and 22 strikeouts. He also flashed a little lumber Wednesday afternoon.

"I hit a home run," Weaver said of his shot to left-center during early batting practice. "That's what counts."

Hot start: Weaver etched his name into the Angels record book when he equaled Bo Belinsky by winning his first four starts. All Weaver could say was, "Who?" when asked if he'd heard of the former Angels left-hander. Belinsky accomplished the feat in 1962 from April 18-May 11, a stretch that included a no-hitter.

Weaver has exuded great poise this season but admitted he is so far exceeding his expectations.

"I am definitely surprised. It is not every day that you come out and open 4-0. My brother, maybe. He threw the ball really well," Weaver said of Jeff, who won six of his first nine Major League starts. "It's all about making adjustments, though, and I'll have to keep making them."

The Angels won't say they could have predicted his fast start but are confident of his future.

"In his career I think he will get lots of Major League starts and with great frequency," Black said.

Looming decision: Colon threw a bullpen session on Wednesday afternoon and progressed through all of his pitches. Barring any setbacks, Colon will throw again Friday before making a start during the weekend series against the Padres, possibly Sunday in Jered Weaver's slot.

"We want to make sure that we make the right [decision] and we don't want it to come back and haunt us," manager Mike Scioscia said. "We have to make sure all of the elements are there."

Day off: Darin Erstad got his first opportunity to rest his right ankle since returning from the disabled list when he sat out Wednesday. Erstad, who missed 37 games, has gone 0-for-5 in the last two games with an RBI.

"It's manageable. It's more annoying than anything," said Erstad, who sat with left-hander Mark Redman pitching for the Royals. "I'm just trying to make it through the year, at this point."

Erstad missed time in Spring Training with bone spurs in the same ankle but the pain that sidelined him for all of last month was more along the side of the foot. One thing Erstad would dismiss is the notion of surgery.

"I'm not even saying that word," Erstad said. "That is not going to be an option."

Juggling: Scioscia opted to adjust his lineup throughout, sitting a number of left-handed hitters. Juan Rivera was in center for Erstad with Chone Figgins at third base, Robb Quinlan at first and Maicer Izturis starting at second base.

On the farm: Howie Kendrick doubled in Triple-A Salt Lake's 7-6 win over Fresno on Tuesday to extend his hitting streak to 11 games. The second baseman is leading the PCL with a .398 batting average.

On deck: The Angels will conclude their four-game series with the Royals at 7:05 p.m. PT on Thursday with right-hander John Lackey set to face Kansas City right-hander Mike Wood. Jeff Weaver will start against Padres right-hander Clay Hensley on Friday.







