
CLEVELAND -- Saturday could be described by a number of colorful phrases and most would be unfit for a family Web site, but the Angels merely have to call it a loss.

Three errors on the afternoon led to nine unearned runs, two of which broke open a tie game in the sixth inning.

The Indians sent 11 men to the plate in the frame and scored eight runs to hand the Angels a 14-2 loss and tie the series at a game apiece with the finale set for Sunday night.

"We've been through this before," said Kelvim Escobar, who was saddled with the loss. "It is just one game, and you have to come back and play hard. Hopefully we'll have better results."

Escobar (5-6) who signed a three-year, $28.5 million contract extension Wednesday, has now lost his last four starts. On Saturday, however, there was plenty of blame to pass around.

The right-hander allowed eight runs on six hits and five walks over 5 2/3 innings but an error by Vladimir Guerrero and another by Orlando Cabrera in the sixth led to six unearned runs.

"We've given up our share of unearned runs this year and we gave up a bunch today," manager Mike Scioscia said.

Escobar labored through the first inning, when he required 30 pitches but escaped with just one run when Grady Sizemore walked and scored on a single by Travis Hafner, who had a career-tying day.

The Indians designated hitter went 3-for-4 with a double, grand slam and six RBIs that equaled his career high.

Escobar recovered from the long first inning, though, and allowed just one run over his next four innings as Sizemore led off the third inning with a homer. Through that stretch, Escobar allowed just two hits, a walk and a hit batter.

Providing support for Escobar was the offense, as the Angels put together a two-out rally to tie the game in the top of the sixth.

Chone Figgins flared a single to right-center, and Cabrera followed with a line single to left. Garret Anderson then drove them both home with a double to right-center off Indians starter Cliff Lee (4-5), who allowed two runs on six hits and two walks with four strikeouts over seven innings to pick up the win.

Handed a new ballgame, Escobar started the sixth by striking out Hafner before Victor Martinez and Ben Broussard followed with back-to-back singles. Escobar then got Casey Blake to ground to short for the second out of the inning.

On a 1-0 pitch, Ronnie Belliard reached for an outside fastball and lifted a slicing but shallow pop fly down the right-field line. Guerrero, who was shaded that way, made the long run and got the to ball with relative ease but it hit off his glove and both runners scored on the error.

"It just keeps going, but it is a tough read and a tough play," said Adam Kennedy, who committed an error in the eighth. "It is one of those plays if you make it, it is a great play. But if you don't, it looks like you should have."

The Angels lost all grip of the game from that point on as the Indians pressed their advantage.

Aaron Boone followed with an RBI double and Escobar was instructed to intentionally walk Sizemore. He then loaded the bases by walking Jason Michaels, which ended his day.

Brendan Donnelly was summoned from the bullpen and got exactly what he was looking for, a ground ball from Jhonny Peralta. But the ball took one last tricky hop and hit Cabrera in the gut. By the time he picked the ball up and made an underhand toss to second, Michaels was safe and Boone had scored on the error.

Hafner then followed with his Major League-leading third grand slam this season and the fifth of his career.

"It looked like we were a pitch away from getting out of a jam but after that [the Indians] just kept going," Scioscia said. "It sounds funny, but that game was closer than the score indicated."

The Indians weren't done, roughing up reliever J.C. Romero to put an exclamation point on the rout.

The left-hander started the eighth and walked Sizemore and Michaels before allowing an RBI single to Peralta to lead off the inning. Hafner then doubled home Michaels and Martinez plated Peralta with a sac fly as Hafner took third. Blake then hit a smash that Kennedy could not handle, and Hafner scored on the error.

"We battled back a little but then the wheels came off on us," Kennedy said. "Hopefully, it was just a one-time thing."






