
NEW YORK -- The Angels hit a pair of homers in Friday's 4-1 win over the Yankees, but the club does not believe that is how it will break out of a slump.

Key to breathing life back into the bats, manager Mike Scioscia contends, is for the offense to perform as it is designed: hit with runners in scoring position and excel at situational hitting.

One recent move has pushed Orlando Cabrera into the two-hole with Darin Erstad batting third and Vladimir Guerrero at cleanup. Cabrera has struggled at the plate since joining the Angels and Scioscia believes this move can help both his shortstop and the entire lineup.

"Sometimes putting a guy in a different spot can be a catalyst for that," Scioscia said

Cabrera entered Saturday's game hitting .243 and was hitting .212 since June 15, but Scioscia is looking for that one trigger to get his offense back in line, and is hopeful this latest tinkering with the batting order will affect change.

"If you throw out the first month, our on-base percentage is not that far off the mark and we've done well hitting with runners in scoring position," Scioscia said. "The offensive side needs to pick it up, obviously. But the likelihood of guys in our lineup to swing the bat is very, very big. So, the probability of that happening in our lineup is there."

Entering Saturday, the Angels were tied with the Red Sox atop the American League with a .290 average with runners in scoring position.

Vital signs: The bullpen has been getting work this season, nothing unusual for a unit that defines the team's blueprint for success. Scot Shields leads the team with 52 appearances entering Saturday while Brendan Donnelly has appeared in 41 games.

Last season, Shields led the team with 60 appearances and Donnelly made 40 after being activated from the disabled list on June 17 with a fractured nose. Scioscia is well aware he needs the pair to set up for Francisco Rodriguez, who has 38 appearances of his own this season, and is keeping constant tabs on their condition.

"It's not a worry that there is anything that is an indication that is bad or going in a wrong way," Scioscia said. "It has been [pitching coach Bud Black's] concern from the beginning of the season that these guys stay healthy. Right now, everything is OK."

Called up: Chris Bootcheck was called up from Triple-A Salt Lake and will start for the Angels in the series finale with the Yankees on Sunday.  Bootcheck is 4-3 with a 4.72 in 16 starts with the Stingers. The right-hander did not allow a run in three appearances with the Angels this season and converted one save. 

Jake Woods was optioned to Salt Lake to make room for Bootcheck. 
Deadline eve: With the non-waiver trading deadline set for Sunday at 1:00 p.m. PT, the Angels still do not appear close to pulling off a deal and are also not included in any of the big rumors.

General manager Bill Stoneman said he continues to have conversations. 
"Talks are still going on. I had a number of them again today, but I'm not going to put odds on whether we're going to make a deal or not," Stoneman said. 
Stoneman added that he is considering both pitching and offense, but reiterated his stance of finding the deal that will help the organization both short and long term. For his part, Scioscia recognizes the need for offensive help, along with the club's philosophy of not wanting to create problems by filling others. 
"Some holes that Bill is trying to fill might create a void in other areas and that is what he's dealing with," Scioscia said. 
Many of the inquiries have included Shields and Chone Figgins and also the starters, players the Angels are not willing to part with. 
But if a deal is not done, the Angels are content to ride this team for the rest of the year. 
"If nothing is done that is not going to shake our confidence," Scioscia said. "These guys know what needs to be done."

Rehab report: The Angels skipped over Jarrod Washburn's start Saturday. The left-hander has a strained left forearm, but is expected to make his next start.

Right-handed pitcher Kelvim Escobar is playing long toss from 90 feet and will progress to 120 feet and could throw from a mound soon.

"He might be seeing the light at the end of the tunnel and get on the mound in the next 10 days or so," Scioscia said.

Escobar is recovering from surgery to remove a bone chip and shave a bone spur in his right elbow. He is projected to return by early September.

On deck: The Angels will conclude their three-game series at Yankee Stadium on Sunday at 10:05 a.m. PT. Bootcheck will face Yankees left-hander Randy Johnson.






