
ANAHEIM -- The Angels placed Bengie Molina on the 15-day disabled list Monday with a right quadriceps strain and recalled Dallas McPherson to take his spot on the 25-man roster.

Molina sustained the injury in Sunday's 7-6 loss at Oakland. The catcher doubled in the second inning and eventually scored on a groundout by Chone Figgins, but did not return for the bottom of the inning. An MRI taken Monday confirmed the diagnosis.

Given Molina's history with leg problems and the depth at the catching position, the Angels felt it was the right opportunity to rest him and bring up McPherson. He will be eligible to return May 3 in Seattle.

"We don't think it is something that we have to progress past the DL period," manager Mike Scioscia said. "I don't think there is much indication that it is more serious."

Molina, who missed time this spring with a left calf strain and has also battled hamstring problems in the past, is hitting .323 with two doubles, two home runs and eight RBIs in 11 games.

But the plus side to the move is it allowed McPherson to make his first appearance this season with the Angels on Monday. The third baseman missed most of Spring Training with a herniated disk in his lower back and was optioned to Triple-A Salt Lake on March 30.

McPherson started slowly with the Stingers, but picked up the pace in the past few games as he found his timing. Over the last two games, McPherson had two homers and six RBIs.

"We'll put Mac in the mix," Scioscia said of McPherson, who was hitting .308 in 11 games. "Hopefully he is going to bring us some offense."

With 43 homers in two Minor League stops and a brief stint with the Angels last season, McPherson has demonstrated that he has power. Fortunately for the rookie, he will not be counted on to carry the club offensively.

What the club is looking for is some offensive improvement at third base. Robb Quinlan is hitting .182, Maicer Izturis is hitting .167 and Lou Merloni does not have a hit in three at-bats.

"Mac has a chance to be a special offensive player," Scioscia said. "The tough thing is to balance the bad day and bounce back to have a good day. Over the long haul I think he is going to be very productive."

The Angels could use another power bat in the lineup, but McPherson said he is not going to put pressure on himself to carry the load.

"I don't feel that is my job," McPherson said. "I'm just going to try and have good at-bats, not get myself out and hit with runners in scoring position."

McPherson's injury gave the organization pause in the spring. Two years ago, McPherson ruptured a disk in his lower back and missed two months. But the 24-year-old recognized quickly this injury was not as severe and he made quick progress with an aggressive therapy that included core and leg strengthening exercises.

"The back is 100 percent healthy," McPherson said.







   Josh Paul  /    C







Born: 05/19/75
Height: 6'1"
Weight: 200 lbs
Bats: R / Throws: R


More info:
Player page
Stats | Splits
Gallery 
Team Site | Shop




-->





Behind the plate: With Molina out of action, Josh Paul got the start in Monday's series opener with Seattle. He and Jose Molina will share catching chores.

Scioscia will split up the starts against the Mariners, but also liked the matchup better with Paul against former Angels right-hander Aaron Sele.

"Jose will catch a little more, but we're going to need them both," Scioscia said. Lou Merloni will serve as the emergency catcher in the interim.

Trainer's room: Bret Prinz will play catch Wednesday and could be on the mound early next week. The right-handed reliever was placed on the 15-day DL on April 11 with a right shoulder strain.

On the farm: Salt Lake right-hander Dustin Moseley improved to 2-0 on the year with six scoreless innings Sunday in the Stingers 10-5 win at Tucson. Moseley has not allowed a run over 12 innings, making two starts. Left fielder Curtis Pride had a double and three RBIs in the game, raising his average to .444.

On deck: The Angels will conclude their two-game series with the Mariners with a rare afternoon weekday start. First pitch for Tuesday's game will be 1: 05 p.m. PT with right-hander Kevin Gregg getting the spot start in place of Kelvim Escobar, who is on the DL. Left-hander Jamie Moyer will start for Seattle.








