
The naming issue is officially in the past, but the bragging rights for Los Angeles will be on the docket when the Freeway Series opens at Dodger Stadium on Friday.

A full slate of Interleague Play games will be on the schedule throughout Major League Baseball as natural rivalries play the first weekend of home-and-home series.

Also on the Interleague schedule for the Angels this season will be three games at home against the Padres, June 16-18; three in San Francisco, June 19-21; a three-game series in Arizona, June 23-25; three games at home against Colorado, June 26-28; and a visit by the Dodgers for three games, June 30-July 2.

Last season, the Angels had the upper hand against their I-5 rivals, winning five of the six games, including a three-game sweep at home.

As an organization, the Angels are familiar with the Dodgers beyond just mere proximity. Manager Mike Scioscia played for the Dodgers for 13 years, while coaches Mickey Hatcher, Alfredo Griffin, Ron Roenicke and Orlando Mercado all spent part of their respective careers with the Dodgers.

"It is a special feeling for me and the others. To go in there ... it is a special place," Scioscia said. "But as far as an inter-city rivalry, we've played there enough, so it is much like the rest of the schedule. You just go in there and play them."

With the first installment at Dodger Stadium, National League rules will be in play, which means no designated hitter. That presents more of a quandary for Scioscia than in years past because of injuries.

Garret Anderson has missed the last three games with a strained left hamstring, which could keep him out of the series. Tim Salmon has been one of the few offensive bright spots for the Angels this season, but his availability to play the outfield is severely limited due to his surgically repaired left knee that kept him out of action all last season.

"We've never had a real problem when we've played in NL parks in the past. We've never really had the prototypical DH that just hit home runs. We've always had a guy that could play a position, so we never lost a bat in the lineup," Scioscia said. "Without Garret and without Tim -- those are two big bats that might have an impact on the offensive side. This is the first time in a long time that we're hitting this at an inopportune time."

Taking the ball for the Angels will be Jeff Weaver, who is certainly familiar with the surroundings. The right-hander pitched for the Dodgers the last two seasons before signing a one-year deal with the Angels in February. Weaver is coming off a rough outing when he allowed seven runs on seven hits over 3 2/3 innings in a loss to the Mariners.

"I'm looking forward to it, not so much to pitch in Dodger Stadium but to get back out there and fix what's been going wrong," Weaver said. "I like pitching there; it's a great park."

The Dodgers will counter with Aaron Sele. The right-hander opened the year at Triple-A Las Vegas, where he went 3-0 before getting recalled.

"He is not throwing quite as firm as he did in his prime, but he still spins the ball well and hits his spots," Scioscia said. "He makes you beat him and when he is on his game, he is tough to beat."


Pitching matchup
LAA: RHP Jeff Weaver (1-6, 7.40 ERA) 
Weaver is 11-12 in his career at Dodger Stadium.

LAD: RHP Aaron Sele (1-0, 1.98 ERA) 
Sele went 24-24 in three seasons with the Angels, including a 7-0 start in 2004.

Player to watch
The Angels would benefit if Anderson is able to play. He is 12-for-38 with six doubles, three homers and 12 RBIs in his career against Sele.

Interleague by the numbers:
All-time Record vs. Dodgers: 28-22

All-time club Interleague records:
Bartolo Colon and Jeff Weaver, 14 wins
Kelvim Escobar, 8 losses
Darin Erstad, .340 batting average
Garret Anderson, 33 HR
Anderson, 105 RBIs

On the Internet
 MLB.TV

 Gameday Audio

&#149;  Gameday

&#149;  Official game notes

On television
&#149; KCOP Ch. 13; FSN Prime

On radio
&#149; KSPN 710 AM; KMXE 830 AM (Espa&ntilde;ol)



Up next 
&#149; Saturday: Angels (RHP Kevin Gregg, 2-2, 3.86 ERA) at Dodgers (RHP Jae Seo, 1-2, 5.31 ERA), 1:10 p.m. PT 
&#149; Sunday: Angels (RHP Ervin Santana, 4-1, 4.50 ERA) at Dodgers (RHP Derek Lowe, 1-3, 3.45 ERA), 1:10 p.m. PT 
&#149; Monday: Angels (RHP Kelvim Escobar, 5-3, 3.51 ERA) at Rangers (RHP Kameron Loe, 2-4, 4.53 ERA), 5:05 p.m. PT






