
ANAHEIM -- It was Kelvim Escobar's day, and he was happy to share it with some buddies clearly delighted to turn it into a festive occasion.

The Angels busted out of their offensive slumber on Thursday, pounding Cleveland, 8-0, behind an overpowering Escobar, who delivered his first complete-game shutout in four years in front of 33,698 at Angel Stadium.

"I really wanted that game," Escobar said, making that evident with his emotional reaction to rookie Matt Brown's backhanded stab on a Jason Michaels shot behind third base and accurate throw for the final out.

"I'm looking for a big year," Escobar added. "I have the talent and stuff to be one of the best in the game."

Known the past few seasons as the guy who can't get enough runs from his offense, Escobar -- whose last shutout came in 2003 in a Toronto uniform -- was embraced with support from all directions on the occasion of his fourth career shutout.

Jose Molina had a dream day for a catcher, calling a shutout, starting two rallies with hits and stealing home on the back end of a double steal with Reggie Willits. There was an unconfirmed rumor that Molina would drive the team bus to the airport for the flight to Texas and Friday night's start of a seven-game road trip.

"Sometimes I tell him to 'throw whatever you want, I'll catch it,'" Molina said of his relationship with Escobar. "We know each other so well, you can do that. He has a regular fastball, curveball, slider, change, split -- and you still have to locate it. He did that today."

Gary Matthews Jr. followed his game-winning homer on Wednesday night with a three-run rocket that turned a 2-0 lead into 5-0 in the third inning.

Robb Quinlan's two-strike, two-out single started that uprising against losing pitcher Jeremy Sowers (0-2), and Quinlan also made the defensive play of the game when he started an unusual double play ending the top of the third.

Handling Grady Sizemore's bullet behind first with two on and one out, Quinlan flipped to Escobar, who hit the bag, wheeled and found two runners near third, promptly executing a rundown play expertly.

Catalyst Chone Figgins, ending an 0-for-12 spell, doubled and singled, stole a base and scored twice. Vladimir Guerrero had his party hat on as always, contributing a two-run double in the sixth after getting walked intentionally in front of Quinlan's dam-breaking single in the third.

For cleanup man Quinlan, delivering a double and single behind Guerrero and for Escobar -- along with the pivotal double play he started in the field -- made this just about a perfect day, the Angels taking the series 2-1 after losing a home series to the White Sox.

"A lot of people say it's eight guys and Vladdy," Quinlan said. "It might be that way, but we've got some guys who can play. It was great to give Escobar some runs, because in the past we've struggled with that.

"He pitched awesome. His fastball was hitting 95 [mph] in the last inning, and his offspeed stuff was so good."

In the at-bat that opened the game up against Sowers, Quinlan fell behind 0-2 in the count, worked it to 2-2 and then punched a fastball on his fists into left field.

"He jammed me," Quinlan said, "but I got just enough of it to get it over the infield."

Sometimes that's all it takes. Figgins pointed to Erick Aybar's infield chopper for a single right before Kendry Morales' two-run, game-tying homer on Wednesday night as precisely the kind of hit that can shake a club out of a slump.

"It always seems to work out that way," Figgins said. "I was thinking of that when Erick got that high hopper. That's what can turn things around. And it did."

Matthews' second homer in two days came out of the unaccustomed No. 5 spot in the order. The center fielder reached for a Sowers changeup and was strong enough to lift it over the wall in deepest left center.

"A little leverage," Matthews said, smiling. "I got a little backspin on it. I squared it up pretty good and got through it."

Backspin, topspin, side spin, the 13 Angels hits all looked good to manager Mike Sciosica. The eight runs represented the club's biggest outburst since an 11-3 thrashing of Tampa Bay on April 26.

"We did some things on the bases we needed early," Scioscia said, "and got bit hits from 'Q' [Quinlan] and Gary Matthews. The guys behind Vlad came through."

The former catcher marveled at Escobar's line: seven hits, no walks and a season-high nine strikeouts on 103 pitches, 76 for strikes.

"Everything Kelvim did was on the money," Scioscia said. "He was in the zone all day with great stuff. That's a great offensive lineup over there. To shut them down is a tough thing to do."

Escobar was beaming.

"I stayed with my game plan, stayed aggressive," the veteran right-hander said. "They're a good hitting team; everybody knows that. I'm not worried about hitters. It's about pitching."

Nothing wrong with eight runs of support, of course.






