
SEATTLE -- Tony Gwynn with more power. That is what Garret Anderson has been since manager Mike Scioscia made him the No. 2 hitter in the Angels' lineup, moving him up from No. 6.

Hitting between Chone Figgins and Mark Teixeira for the most part, Anderson has delivered Gwynn-like numbers with his .403 average and .437 on-base percentage, while slugging .552. The sample size, 67 at-bats and 71 plate appearances, is not insignificant.

"I don't know if I'm looked at in the baseball world as a two-hole hitter," Anderson said. "I'm not one-dimensional. I can do a lot of different things. I've hit everywhere in the lineup in my career. I've even led off, back in '96 for a few games."

Scioscia has used a variety of hitters in the two-spot, but none have kept the offense in motion the way Anderson has. This does not surprise Anderson's good friend, Figgins, who sees Anderson as an ideal No. 2 man.

"He's a line-drive hitter who can use the whole field," Figgins said. "He's very dangerous against left-handers or right-handers, and he's always willing to give himself up for the team, to make an out to advance a runner.

"He can run the bases, and he will take a pitch if he knows I'm going to run. Plus, he's got that peripheral vision that allows him to pick me up if I am running. We work well together that way. We know each other really well."

Figgins and Anderson share a corner of the home clubhouse and are often seen deep in conversation, whether it's about the game of baseball or music or whatever the topic of the day might be.

"The two-hole is a great place to hit," Anderson said, "especially when you have somebody in front of you like Chone and guys behind you like Mark [Teixeira], Vlad [Guerrero] and Torii [Hunter]. At the top of the lineup, your focus is on getting on base for the big boppers coming up behind you.

"I remember in '01, Mike did it with [Troy] Glaus, hitting him second against left-handers. He did some damage in that spot."

One of the peripheral benefits of hitting second is the additional at-bats it brings, along with getting to bat in the first inning.

"Years ago," Anderson said, "I used to wonder why I couldn't get 200 hits like Derek Jeter and some of the other guys. Then I looked into it and saw that they were getting 80, 90 more plate appearances than I was. Over the course of a season, that makes a big difference.

"It's also an advantage to hit in the first inning. It gets you right in the game [mentally]."

Anderson was not in the lineup for Monday night's series opener against the Mariners after torching the Rangers (9-for-13, one homer, six RBIs) in Arlington.

"That's Mike's decision," Anderson said. "If it was up to me, I'd play it out. I never like to come out of the lineup."

Anderson said his legs feel relatively good and he'd prefer to play left field in the postseason, as opposed to serving as designated hitter.

Scioscia, who hasn't committed to a postseason lineup, said Anderson was hitting just as well in the No. 6 spot as he has at No. 2.

"I don't want guys sitting for too many days," Scioscia said, "but we have guys who need at-bats and some who need to take a day to catch their breath a little."






