
MINNEAPOLIS -- A year ago, the Angels' offense received its share of criticism, but it didn't matter much as the pitching staff, backed by strong defense, carried the team to a division title.

It's been a different story in 2006, as the team has struggled to a sub-.500 mark (7-8) through the first 15 games with its first series against Oakland, a three-game set, immediately on the horizon. The Angels were not under .500 at any point last year.

The Angels gave up a pair of leads on Wednesday with closer Francisco Rodriguez blowing a save in the ninth and J.C. Romero giving up a two-run, walk-off homer to take the loss in the 10th.

It was uncharacteristic of a unit that has been one of baseball's best over the last few seasons.

"We are the type of team that when we have the lead at the end of the game, we will come through," Romero said. "But we have to put that behind us."

The Angels have yet to become alarmed over an emerging trend, but recognize a pitching staff that is allowing opponents to hit .282 while posting an ERA that is more than half a run higher than last season.

"We're not as crisp in areas that we need to be in. One thing is pitching," manager Mike Scioscia said. "We have a couple of things where pitchers have gotten into their starts and they've been a little bit erratic and getting into deep counts. That is where it starts, with pitching."

The Angels fell to 2-4 on Wednesday in the midst of a 10-game road trip, and would like to find some rhythm to the season.

"You can cut the season up in 10 equal parts and analyze any part of it," Scioscia said. "This is almost a 10th of the season, and we hope this is the worst it gets."

Trainer's room: Juan Rivera missed his fourth straight game Thursday as he continues to struggle with a left oblique strain. Tim Salmon, who has been slowed by a strained right hip flexor, was again limited to pinch-hitting availability.

While Salmon has been taking batting practice, Rivera has barely picked up a bat. If the outfielder/DH is not ready to play this weekend in Oakland, the team may have to look at placing him on the disabled list, but the Angels haven't yet reached that threshold.

"We're already 4-5 days into this thing. If he's obviously not going to be ready in a reasonable amount of time, then maybe, because with both Tim and Juan down, that impacts us in some ballgames," Scioscia said. "But it is going to take time."

The Angels adjusted the lineup for Thursday's series finale with the Twins, starting Chone Figgins in right with Vladimir Guerrero in the designated hitter's slot. Edgardo Alfonzo started at third and Jose Molina returned to start at catcher after a three-game absence.

On the horizon: If Rivera were placed on the DL, it could open the door for the first appearance of Howie Kendrick with the Angels. The second baseman is hitting .386 through 13 games at Triple-A Salt Lake and recently had an 11-game hitting streak snapped.

But the club is not sure if they would need offensive or pitching help, while there are also candidates at the Major League level.

"There are a lot of things to look at. I don't know of any specific players that we might call up," Scioscia said. "Right now, on the offensive side, we're doing a good job. We have a chance to get some of these bats into the lineup.

One of those players is Maicer Izturis, who started the last four games and collected at least one hit.

It happens: Guerrero committed one of two costly errors on Wednesday as the Angels allowed four unearned runs and lost, 12-10, to the Twins.

Making the error a bit tougher was a run scored when a catch by Guerrero would have ended the inning. But Guerrero had also made a good jump to run down a sinking liner and was in position to make the easy grab when the ball glanced off his glove.

Guerrero later proved his defensive value, though, by holding Joe Mauer at third in the ninth inning when Mauer later scored when Rodriguez walked in the tying run.

"That was one play, and it was not desirable, but that is going to happen from time to time," Scioscia said. "[Guerrero] controls the running game and he has good range. Funny things happen in this park, and he just missed the ball."

On the farm: Jered Weaver (2-1) tossed six scoreless innings to pick up the win as Salt Lake shut out Tucson, 6-0, on Wednesday. The right-hander allowed five hits, walked two and struck out six. ... Dallas McPherson hit a three-run homer Wednesday, his second of the year. ... Brandon Wood went 3-for-5 with two solo homers as Double-A Arkansas lost, 8-6, to Tulsa on Wednesday. Wood has four homers, 10 RBIs and is hitting .321 in 13 games.

On deck: The Angels will open a three-game series against division rival Oakland at 7:05 p.m. PT on Friday. Right-hander John Lackey will face A's right-hander Rich Harden, with right-hander Jeff Weaver scheduled to start against the A's on Saturday.







