
KANSAS CITY -- The Angels had a new third baseman Sunday, but did not make a trade.

Howie Kendrick, who had been taking ground balls at third base, made his first start there against the Royals.

Manager Mike Scioscia was looking for a way to get Kendrick's bat in the lineup. Kendrick was hitting .369 with a .631 slugging percentage, which ranked second in the Pacific Coast League, when he was recalled July 14 from Triple-A Salt Lake.

"We want to give him a chance to contribute," Scioscia said. "We want to try to establish trying to keep some offensive continuity. We'd like to get Howie's bat in there from time to time."

Scioscia also said Maicer Izturis, who had started 25 of the previous 26 games, "needs a day off."

The revamped lineup also included Robb Quinlan playing first base, instead of Kendry Morales, who hit .409 in his first five Major League games, but .217 since and is hitless in his past 10 at-bats.

"He's struggling with a couple of things," Scioscia said.

Trade talk: The Angels continue to pursue deals that would perk up their offense, but Scioscia insists he will not be disappointed if general manager Bill Stoneman doesn't make a trade before the July 31 deadline.

"Our viewpoint as a staff is if there is no cavalry coming, I'm confident in the guys in this [clubhouse]," Scioscia said. "Anything added to it obviously is something that would help. I think this team would be more concerned if we were lacking in the pitching staff."

The Angels rank second in the American League with a 4.10 earned run average and hold opposing hitters to a .253 average.

"Last year we won 95 games with a team that was a little challenged offensively," Scioscia said.

He said if you take a straw poll most clubs would rather have a deficiency offensively than pitching.

Escobar sore: Kelvim Escobar, who gave up three runs in the first inning on Saturday and pitched six scoreless innings after that, said his elbow and back were "real sore" Sunday.

Escobar had surgery to remove a bone spur from his right elbow last year and his start against the Royals was his first since July 6 because of an elbow irritation that landed him on the 15-day disabled list.

He said his elbow feels better than last season.

"Last year it was like a pinch when I threw, like a needle was going through it," Escobar said. "Last night when I released the ball you feel the pain, but it goes away right away.

"There might be some scar tissue from last year. It is something I'm going to have deal with until it goes away. I don't know how long it will take. When it breaks down, I guess there will be a lot less soreness. Hopefully it will go away for next year."

Escobar said he used all of his pitches against the Royals.

"I'm not afraid," he said. "I've been pitching like that the whole season."

Limited DH options: Garret Anderson, who is still bothered by a sore hamstring, was the starting designated hitter for the 23rd time.

"It's not a preference," Scioscia said. "When he's healthy, he's a presence in left field for us. When he's there, he gives us more lineup options. We're going to ride this out until Garret's hamstring is where he feels good enough to play the field.

"Right now we need his bat in the lineup. So we have to absorb it as DH."

With Anderson the DH, it takes away at-bats from Tim Salmon, who had just five at-bats in the Angels' last homestand and did not start in the four-game series with the Royals. Salmon has started 40 games, 37 as the DH.

No vacation: From July 28-Aug. 31, the Angels have only one off-day -- Aug. 21. They have a makeup game scheduled Aug. 7 against the White Sox.

Scioscia acknowledged that players' "gas tanks may be getting a little low" in August.

"We've got some depth now," Scioscia said. "We'll do everything we can to keep guys fresh and strong."

He said he may use Vladimir Guerrero as the DH for one of the next three games in Tampa Bay "to catch his breath."

Guerrero has played in 96 of the 98 games, starting 88 in right.

"Vlady is a special player for a lot of reasons," Scioscia said. "When Vlady is in our lineup, even though he is a little nicked up, it makes everybody around him better. A lot of games Vlady will go 0-for and we'll still win the game because of his presence."

Minor points: Right-hander Dustin Mosley, a 2000 first-round pick the Angels acquired in a Dec. 14, 2004, trade with Cincinnati, is 8-4 with a 3.99 ERA with Salt Lake. ... Dallas McPherson is hitting .223 in 36 games with Salt Lake.

Upcoming: John Lackey (8-6, 2.93 ERA) and Devil Rays right-hander Jae Seo (2-8, 5.44) are the pitching probables for the 4:15 p.m. PT start on Monday.






