
MINNEAPOLIS -- Juan Rivera and Jeff DaVanon were billed as a right-left combo at designated hitter this season and it's partly worked out that way.

The pair has shared the slot with Chone Figgins, but with Figgins needed elsewhere in the field due to a variety of players on the disabled list, Rivera has created a little separation over DaVanon.

With seven homers in his last 33 games entering Friday's game with the Twins, and the team in need of some added power, the Angels are looking to keep Rivera as active in the lineup as possible.

"That is giving our pitchers a chance to settle in and pitch well because they're being supported with offense," manager Mike Scioscia said.

Currently hurting, DaVanon is batting .212 from the left side, as opposed to hitting .556 (10-for-18) from the right side entering Friday.

"We still have confidence in Jeff that he is going to get it going from the left side," Scioscia said. "But he has not found his consistent swing yet. It is really a matter, right now, of hitting the ball well off right-handers."

Rivera and DaVanon both started in the outfield Friday night as Vladimir Guerrero was the DH to give him a break from the artificial turf at the Metrodome.

Family matters: Garret Anderson was not in the lineup Friday after he returned to Los Angeles to attend funeral services for his grandmother, who died last weekend. Scioscia said Anderson was scheduled to rejoin the team Friday night and will be in the lineup Saturday.

Anderson is currently bothered by a back strain and was the DH in Thursday's game.


Ready to return: Orlando Cabrera took batting and infield practice before Friday's game and was activated from the DL after the Angels' 3-2 win over the Twins.  "He looked great yesterday and he said he feels great today," Scioscia said.  Cabrera last appeared in a game June 26 against the Dodgers and has since missed 16 games with a right elbow strain. A CT scan also revealed debris in the joint and the shortstop may elect to have surgery to clean up the area in the offseason.  Maicer Izturis has started in Cabrera's absence and has played well both at the plate and in the field, but has just four hits in his last 22 at-bats entering Friday's game.  To make room for Cabrera, the Angels optioned outfielder Curtis Pride to Triple-A Salt Lake. 
Working hard: Dallas McPherson is not with the team as he rehabs a left hip strain in the team's training facility in Tempe, Ariz. The third baseman last appeared July 7 against the Mariners and the club is hopeful he'll be ready to return when he becomes eligible on July 22.

It is the third injury for McPherson this season, though all three could be interrelated. The rookie missed most of the Cactus League schedule with a herniated disk in his lower back and did not open the regular season until April 18. He also missed most of the Rangers' series in late June with a groin strain.

Now sidelined by the hip injury, the club hopes McPherson's string of injuries has run its course.

"To be shut down and put on the DL, sure there is some concern," Scioscia said. "Hopefully it is something that is not going to be chronic."

Taking it slow: Kelvim Escobar accompanied the team to Minnesota even though he won't return until early September. He is recovering from surgery to shave a bone spur and remove a bone chip from his right elbow.

The right-hander has not begun a throwing program and is doing range-of-motion exercises until his elbow is strong enough for the next step.

Mystery illness: Jarrod Washburn said he felt much better Friday, but was still a little weak. On Thursday, the left-hander tossed 5 2/3 innings in a win over the Twins despite throwing up five times in between innings.

Washburn said he ruled out food poisoning. He did not eat much prior to pitching Thursday and his last meal before leaving to rejoin the team after the All-Star break was a fish dinner of blue gill, crappie and bass that he caught in his own lake on his 29-acre ranch in Wisconsin.

On deck: The Angels will play the Twins in the third game of their four-game series at 4:10 p.m. PT on Saturday. Right-hander Bartolo Colon will face Minnesota left-hander Johan Santana.







