
SEATTLE -- There were balls crushed for homers by Mike Napoli and Gary Matthews Jr., balls driven to gaps for doubles, balls laced to all fields for singles.

And what did this game turn on?

A ground ball back to the mound that Jered Weaver misjudged.

Struck more softly by Jeremy Reed in the sixth inning than Weaver calculated off the bat, it glanced off his glove and rolled into shallow right field. What could have been an inning-ending double play, preserving a four-run lead, became a floodgate-opening single, leading to a 9-6 Mariners victory at Safeco Field that derailed a pair of streaks on Tuesday.

Gone is a five-game Angels winning streak that had opened up some distance on the rest of the American League. Gone also is a 12-game Mariners losing streak that had Seattle one unhappy ending away from being the most expensive outfit ever saddled with 100 losses.

"It was one of the ones that looked like it was harder than it was," Weaver said. "It was an easy comebacker for a double-play ball. Obviously, I need to make that play."

When Wladimir Balentien followed with a fly ball that seemed to hit a wind current and dive away from center fielder Torii Hunter at the last instant, another run scored, making it 6-4. And when Kenji Johjima lashed a double to right-center for two more runs, Weaver's night was over.

Rookie Kevin Jepsen put out the fire, retiring the great Ichiro Suzuki to end the inning, but the Mariners put together a three-run seventh against the rookie right-hander and Justin Speier, and the Angels expired without a hit across the final three innings.

"I've never seen a ball do that," Hunter said of the ball that eluded his seven-time Gold Glove. "It's like there was a wind pocket, and it hit a seam and shot straight down. If I couldn't catch it ... can't do anything about it now. Take it on the chin."

With the Rays sweeping the Orioles, the Angels' lead in the race for best record in the American League was shaved to two games with five left for both clubs.

Home-field advantage throughout the postseason is in the Angels' hands. If they win four of their final five games, they clinch it no matter what the Rays do.

"It's always been there," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "Certainly after we got to the playoffs [clinching the AL West title on Sept. 10], it became our next goal. The only way to get there is focus on our game at hand and hopefully do some things better than we did tonight."

The Angels were 1-for-7 with runners in scoring position, while the Mariners were 6-for-15.

Weaver, making his pitch for a postseason starting assignment, was rolling along with a four-run cushion when the Mariners came to life in the sixth with a pair of one-out singles preceding Reed's comebacker.

"I felt great," Weaver said, eight strikeouts against no walks in 5 2/3 innings, underscoring his power and command. "I was locating well. I left a couple pitches in ... and things didn't bounce my way.

"Obviously, guys gave me some run support, and I couldn't hold it down. It's the way it's been going."

Jepsen, who had been superb in his first six appearances, fell to 0-1 when two singles and a walk were his undoing in the seventh. Reliever Roy Corcoran (6-2) picked up the win with two scoreless innings of relief.

Napoli continued his torrid hitting with a three-run homer in the fourth inning, a booming drive to center against starter Ryan Feierabend. It was No. 19 for the season in only 216 at-bats for the big catcher, whose .551 slugging percentage is second on the club to Mark Teixeira's .618.

Napoli added a pair of singles, giving him 10 hits in 18 at-bats on the trip and lifting his average to .250.

Matthews also unloaded for his eighth homer, a two-run shot in the second inning after the first of two singles by Howie Kendrick. In his second start since returning from a left hamstring strain, Kendrick was driving the ball hard to the opposite field, a strong indication that he's seeing the ball well and not swinging at pitchers' pitches, he said afterward.

"Nap's got unbelievable power," Kendrick said. "I think he can hit the ball even farther than that."

The Angels added a run in the sixth on singles by Chone Figgins and Garret Anderson and Vladimir Guerrero's sacrifice fly for what seemed to be a commanding 6-2 lead.

Weaver had allowed only one earned run across 12 innings in his previous two starts and appeared to be making a major breakthrough in his bid to nail down a postseason starting assignment when Reed's comebacker led to an unraveling.

"He didn't quite get a couple pitches into zones he had been in," Scioscia said. "The ball hit to center took a left turn on Torii. I don't think I've ever seen [one] move like that.

"I thought Jered was throwing very well up until then. Seattle came back and swung the bats. We weren't as crisp as we needed to be on the mound, and those guys took advantage of it."






