
SEATTLE -- Wednesday couldn't have turned out much better for Jarrod Washburn.

The left-hander hit his spots, caused batters to miss badly with his breaking pitches and otherwise commanded the mound as he's done so often in nine big league seasons.

Unfortunately for the Angels, though, Washburn now plies his trade for the Mariners and the red-hatted Halos were on the receiving end in a 6-4 loss to drop the season-opening series.

And if getting handled by a former teammate wasn't enough, his replacement struggled in his first start with the Angels. Jeff Weaver took the hill opposite Washburn on Wednesday and dug an early hole as the Mariners scored three runs in the first two innings.

"I played there a long time and I have a lot of friends there," said Washburn, who allowed two runs over seven innings for the win. "It feels good to beat them"

Washburn was a second-round draft pick by the Angels in 1995 and proceeded to win 75 games for the ballclub. He was also one of the stalwarts from the Angels' World Series campaign of 2002 when he led the team with 18 victories.

But with impending free agency, the Angels chose to not re-sign Washburn and he bolted for the Pacific Northwest and a four-year deal worth $37.5 million. The Angels also lost Paul Byrd from the rotation this past offseason and replaced the two with Kelvim Escobar, who returned from elbow surgery last season, and Weaver.

On Wednesday afternoon, Weaver carved a groove eventually, but the struggles remained throughout his 6 1/3 innings as he allowed five of the seven leadoff batters he faced to reach base. That proved costly to the right-hander as four of those baserunners scored.

He didn't have to wait long either as Ichiro Suzuki greeted Weaver by lining the first pitch he threw into the right-field corner for a double. Jose Lopez followed with a single and both runners scored in the inning on a double by Richie Sexson.

Joe Borchard led off the second with a single and scored on a base hit by Lopez. Weaver threw scoreless frames in the third and fourth but Lopez led off the fifth with a triple and scored while Ichiro walked to open the seventh and scored on a single by Raul Ibanez.

"I just made it tough on myself; the leadoff guy was on base every inning," Weaver said. "That adds pressure on me and it adds pressure on the defense. It seemed like every lead off guy was scoring."

Weaver allowed nine hits in all while walking two and striking out two. He also hit Sexson with a pitch in the third.

"After the first couple of innings he moved the ball around and started hitting his spots," manager Mike Scioscia said. "Unfortunately his linescore isn't going to reflect how well he pitched."

Providing an Angels' highlight for the second straight day, though, was Tim Salmon. He got his first start of the season as the designated hitter Wednesday and went 2-for-4 with a solo homer and a double.

Salmon has made a case for more playing time with two home runs in as many days. While he isn't about to take it for granted and declare he is all the way back from two surgeries, one to his left shoulder and the other to his left knee, he's gaining confidence with each passing day.

"The swing is there and it is just getting into a situation to hit," Salmon said. "From Day 1 in Spring Training I thought it would be different from the last couple of years."

Both of his hits came off Washburn.

"It's always a little strange because you know him out there. But after that first at-bat it's a game and you say, 'Let's go,'" said Salmon, who got a quick look from Washburn at second base after the double. "The competitive juices get going. I hate to say it that way because that's the way it is. He was a little fired up because of the way he was throwing the ball in the first couple of innings."

Darin Erstad had one of six hits off Washburn, a single in the fifth. The two talked before the game but it was baseball thereafter.

"It was a little weird but after the first pitch it was back to business," Erstad said.

Washburn admitted afterward that it was an emotional experience but he was able to channel his thoughts and focus on the game.

Although he had a winning record in his time with the Angels, Washburn was a sub-.500 pitcher at Angel Stadium. By running his mark at Safeco Field to 6-4 on Wednesday, it appears he's comfortable in his new home.

"I really wanted this [win] bad," Washburn said. "Being on a new team for the first time in my career."






