
MINNEAPOLIS -- Sunday is a great day for crossword lovers, who kick-back with the newspaper, a good pen and a strong cup of coffee to jump-start their brains.

So, in their honor, here's today's key question: What's a six-letter word for frustrated?

F-I-N-L-E-Y

Manager Mike Scioscia gave struggling center fielder Steve Finley his first day off this year on Sunday, in part because he's due for a day off, but also to see if spending a game off his feet will help him clear the slate and get a fresh start on what's been best described as frustrating.

"Sometimes, when you're just grinding it out and pounding your head against the wall, it's good to step back, and you might find that doorway is right next to it," said Scioscia, who added that Finley's .149 batting average is not indicative of how he's been hitting the ball.

April traditionally has been a downer for Finley -- he's now got a career average of .235 in April, but his average in every other month hovers between .276 and .286. Hitting coach Mickey Hatcher said just turning the page on the calendar could give Finley season the spark it needs to turn around.

"His month's coming up," Hatcher said. "He's always been a slow starter in the first month, and he's excited to get it going. I think Mike does a good job picking the days to get these guys rest, and I think today's a good one for him."

Finley is mired in an 0-for-14 slump and has just four hits in his last 38 at-bats, but he hit .225 last April and rebounded to hit .340 in May and June. Hatcher said Finley showed signs of a turnaround in New York, despite going 1-for-11 (the one hit being a mammoth home run).

"The last series he hit the ball as good as you can hit it and didn't get nothing," Hatcher said. "But it didn't matter if he got four hits yesterday, he was getting a day off. There's times when you've got to start sitting your guys and it was all set up knowing that we had a left-hander for a day game."

Scioscia also wanted to keep his outfielders from playing three straight games on the Metrodome's hard turf. Garret Anderson and Vladimir Guerrero each started one game at designated hitter, but Finley got Sunday off entirely.

"Sometimes it's good to sit back and watch a game," Scioscia said. 

Merloni injured:  Lou Merloni's first start since April 11 didn't last long. Merloni got the nod at third base against Twins lefty Johan Santana, but while fielding a grounder hit by Lew Ford in the fourth inning of Sunday's game, he twisted his right ankle and was forced to leave the game.

"I fielded the ball, and when I went to throw it, (my foot) didn't come off the turf," Merloni said. "It just stayed there."

Dallas McPherson replaced Merloni, who struck out in his only at-bat and walked off the field under his own power. He'll be re-evaluated on Monday, and Scioscia said the team had not decided on a contingency plan should they be forced to put Merloni on the disabled list.

Hatcher falls flat: When the Angels visit the Metrodome, hitting coach Mickey Hatcher -- a former Twin and longtime fan favorite in Minnesota -- often takes part in a pregame softball Home Run Derby with a fan and the Twins' mascot, an oversized bear named T.C.

On Saturday, they went at it again, with T.C. -- a powerful left-handed slugger in the Kent Hrbek mold -- defeating Hatcher for the first time ever. 

"First loss, man," said an obviously dejected Hatcher on Sunday morning. "My back isn't like it used to be."

Hatcher insinuated that dirty tricks played a part in the bear's win and suggested T.C. might be a ringer. "That guy plays a little bit of softball," Hatcher said. "He conned me there -- I asked him which bat I should use, and he said, 'That bat's not very good. You should use the other one.' The he walked up with the other one and started smoking them out of the park, so he set me up there."

Nice threads: On getaway days, the players break out their travel wardrobe, and outfielder Juan Rivera drew a few catcalls from his teammates when he rolled into the clubhouse Sunday morning in a white pinstripe suit.

"Hey Col. Sanders, I'll take an order of original recipe," was typical of the comments bandied about as Rivera grinned and shook his head.

On deck: The Angels begin the final leg of their three-city tour of the country, starting a three-game series in Seattle on Monday. Jarrod Washburn (1-0, 3.38) will take on Ryan Franklin (1-3, 4.09).







