
The list of Jeff Mathis' accolades couldn't get much longer.

He's been the Angels' Minor League Defensive Player of the Year two of the past three seasons, a member of Baseball America's Triple-A All Star team in 2005, a participant in the 2003 and 2004 MLB Futures Game and an All-Star at nearly every level of the Minors.

But those Minor League honors don't necessarily bring immediate success in the Majors. Just ask Mathis.

As the Angels embarked on their 2006 season, Mathis got the chance to begin a promising big-league career in earnest after a late-season cup of coffee in 2005. After all, he was the same touted catching prospect that left the Angels comfortable enough to bid farewell to Bengie Molina in the offseason. A first-round pick in the 2001 First-Year Player Draft, Mathis -- who had hit 21 home runs and drove in 73 runs in 2005 -- was given the opportunity to platoon with Jose Molina behind the plate.

Mathis said his struggles weren't caused by the pressure of being a first-round selection -- he's dealt with that since his days in rookie ball. He said it wasn't missing out on two weeks of preparation with a handful of pitchers who left camp in Spring Training to play in the World Baseball Classic.

Whatever the reason, Mathis began the year in a slump both at the plate and behind it, and he couldn't shake the rut. Needless to say, he didn't last long with the Angels.

"It looked like Jeff put a little bit of undue pressure on himself," Angels pitching coach Bud Black said. "We expected Jeff to play up to his capability and I think he tried to push a little too hard."

The 23-year-old hit .103 in 12 games with the big-league club, and he committed two errors and threw out only two of nine baserunners. And as part of the Angels' early-season struggles, pitchers didn't have much success with Mathis, posting a 5.91 ERA when he was behind the plate.

"I wasn't getting hits and I wasn't having good at-bats," Mathis said. "And I can't say I was doing great defensively. I wasn't handling the pitching staff as well as I should have been."

All that forced the Angels' coaching staff to send Mathis back to Triple-A Salt Lake, where he could refocus, get his swing back and settle down defensively while playing every day.

"He was struggling, and the reason was, not unlike many young players that come up, he was just trying to get his feet on the ground and trying to understand what the Major Leagues are all about," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said.

With rosters expanding to 40 players on Friday, Mathis is one of the several Angels farmhands expected to be recalled right away, giving him a second chance to succeed at baseball's highest level.

Since being demoted on May 4, Mathis has hit .292 with the Bees, including five home runs and 45 RBIs. He's also fixed up his game behind the plate with just six errors in 98 contests, while managing a pitching staff that paced Salt Lake to a berth in the Pacific Coast League playoffs.

"He's played very well at Triple-A," Scioscia said. "He'll have a better understanding of his goal in the Major Leagues and how he needs to apply himself to perform better, and he will."












"He's got a great makeup, and our plans are still very high on Jeff for the future. He has the ability to be a No. 1 catcher and lead a team to a championship."









-- Mike Scioscia











While Mathis was performing better in the Minors, his replacement in the Majors was giving him little chance to return. Mike Napoli exploded with one tape-measure home run after another and proved to be a valuable asset working with Angels starters.

Mathis, though, didn't get discouraged. He focused on what Scioscia told him to improve upon when he was sent down, throwing out runners and swinging the bat better. He knew he needed to be ready when the Angels gave him another shot.

That chance is now, and with Napoli batting .200 since July and Jose Molina not close to the offensive threat his brother was, Mathis figures to see some playing time down the stretch.

"You're excited any time you get called up and being able to do what you've always dreamed of doing," Mathis said. "I'm looking forward to it."

The catcher felt the same way back in April, when his robust spring beat out Napoli and earned him a spot as an Angels backstop. Rated as one of the franchise's top five prospects for the last several years, Mathis gave the Angels an occasional glimpse of what type of player they had.

Beyond his diminutive average and gaffes in the field, a road game in Baltimore proved plenty of Mathis' worth.

After his passed ball set up the Orioles' eventual go-ahead run in the eighth inning on April 14, Mathis countered with his first Major League home run in the ninth to tie the contest. The Orioles eventually won the game, but Mathis showed signs that he had the ability to not let problems on defense carry over into his offensive game, always a challenge for young players.

Plus, Mathis figured the exhilaration of his first home run could give his confidence at the plate a much-needed boost.

"I started feeling better at the plate there," he said. "I squared up a couple of balls that series and thought there was probably going to be a turnaround there on the offensive side."

That turnaround never came and Mathis collected only one more hit before being sent down.

The rookie said he has no idea how much his September performance will do in earning him a job in the Majors for next season. All Mathis knows is that he has an opportunity to showcase his rediscovered swing and his newfound comfort level behind the plate.

"He's got a great makeup, and our plans are still very high on Jeff for the future," Scioscia said. "He has the ability to be a No. 1 catcher and lead a team to a championship."

Or, as far as the Angels are concerned, turn those Minor League accolades into Major League talent and help the club catch the A's in the American League West this September.






