
The method is simple: hand the ball to someone you know can get the job done.

For Angels manager Mike Scioscia, that man is Bartolo Colon and the right-hander will toe the slab when the Angels open the season at home on Tuesday at 7:05 p.m. PT against the Rangers and begin the quest for a second consecutive American League West crown.

"There are certain distractions you have to put aside in Opening Day starts. It's a different atmosphere," Scioscia said. "Bart has thrown Opening Day starts before."

The only question facing Colon this spring on the issue of taking the ball for the season's lid-lifter is whether or not he would be ready. His audition for the role has essentially come and gone and it's been his part since.

The Angels have capfuls of memories from their run to the World Series crown in 2002. But it began with such an inauspicious debut that even the most diehard Halo loyalists would not have believed what would transpire during that championship season.

Why? Because Colon tossed a masterful complete-game, five hit shutout at then-Edison Field as the Indians upended the Angels, 6-0, on Opening Night in front of a nationally televised audience. It was the first Opening Day shutout since Dwight Gooden's in 1993 and it was also Colon's third straight Opening Day start for the Tribe, cementing his reputation as a when-the-lights-go-on type of hurler.

Looking to tap into some of that big-game magic, the Angels signed Colon as a free agent in December 2003. He responded with six innings of one-run ball in his first start in an Angels uniform as his mates ran up a 10-5 win over the Mariners. It was, appropriately, on Opening Day.

"It comes down to executing pitches," Scioscia said. "It comes down to having a good outing and I think Bart will do that."

Colon's 2004 campaign did not follow suit after rolling into the season with a victory under his belt. He went 3-2 in April, but went 2-5 over the next two months as he battled a sore ankle. But Colon caught fire at the turn and posted a 12-4 mark after the All-Star break with a 3.63 ERA.





&#149; Angels open defense of AL West
&#149; Probable starting lineups
&#149; Colon set for Opening Day task
&#149; Angels Season in Preview
&#149; Halos and good buys
&#149; I Live For This




His 12 wins in the second half of 2004 trailed only AL Cy Young winner Johan Santana of the Twins and Houston right-hander Roy Oswalt, who both were 13-0 after the break.

Colon reported to camp this spring in his familiar round appearance, but felt in good shape. The Angels did not want their ace to throw in winter ball, but Colon got in about seven innings just to stay sharp.

His only setback this spring was an abbreviated start against the Rockies in Tucson on March 16, when he left after two innings with stiffness in his back. Colon had delivered an RBI double in the top-half of the inning in a rare at-bat, but he said it had been caused more by the bus ride than physical activity.

Colon responded with five strong innings in a minor league game and followed up with another six innings in his next start and knew he was going to be fine.

"I feel like I have progressed," Colon said after allowing two earned runs in a spring game with the A's. "My body is ready to go."

Jose Molina has been battling an injury of his own this spring as a strained left oblique kept him out of action for most of camp. But he was behind the plate for Colon during the minor league game and caught him often last season. He said he is looking more and more like the pitcher whose 53 wins since 2002 are tops in the Majors.

"His velocity is good," Molina said. "I know because I've been catching him (lately)."

Colon's velocity has come into question as whispers say he's not gunning his fastball into the mid-90s as often as he used to. But Molina dismissed that with firsthand experience when catching Colon during games and side sessions.

Colon is confident he will pick up this season where his strong finish from last year left off. Colon began throwing the other pitches in his repertoire -- slider, curveball and changeup -- a lot earlier in the spring and chalked that up to improved arm strength and overall stamina.

On Tuesday, Colon will be looking to improve on his 3-1 mark and 2.67 ERA as an Opening Day starter. Last year's win was the 100th of his big league career, but throwing the first official pitch remains an honor he'll always cherish.

"It's still exciting to be the Opening Day guy," Colon said.







