
ANAHEIM -- Bartolo Colon has capably shouldered the mantle of ace this year, and is proving to be the difference in the Angels' season.

Other worthy standard bearers on the Halos staff have taken the hill, certainly, but Colon has cut the most imposing figure on the mound, and proved it again on Tuesday by posting his 20th win, becoming the first to reach that mark in the American League this season.

Colon allowed an unearned run on four mostly insignificant hits while turning in seven innings of work before handing the ball over to the bullpen for the final two frames. But it was the overall tone set by the burly right-hander that underscored the Angels' 2-1 win over the Rangers.

Casting aside an uncharacteristic start in which he allowed eight runs in a loss to the Tigers in his last outing, Colon commanded both sides of the plate while gunning his fastball into the high 90s to quiet a Texas team that came to town riding the tailwind of a five-game winning streak and possessing the Major League lead in home runs.

"He's a big-game pitcher and a big competition pitcher," fellow starter Paul Byrd said. "He pitches well against everybody, and not just the smaller lineups. He had some guys at the plate tonight with a lot of RBIs, and he made them look uncomfortable."

Colon became the first Angels pitcher to win 20 games in a season since Nolan Ryan went 22-16 in 1974. It was the second 20-win season for Colon, but the first with one team. He won 10 each with Cleveland and Montreal in 2002.

Putting his name alongside Ryan's in the franchise record book has added significance for Colon because that is the ideal he's been chasing since he was a young boy following baseball in his native Dominican Republic and then again as a young prospect hoping to make his mark.

"When I was just a year old, my dad was always talking about Nolan Ryan," Colon said through an interpreter. "He is my favorite player of all time, so it is a very special feeling to do it as an Angel."

Colon said he first became aware that he was linked with Ryan prior to his last start against Detroit, when he noticed it on a scroll along the bottom of his television screen during a sports highlight show.

He's never had the opportunity to meet Ryan, and admits only really knowing him through commercials for Advil, but he recalls gaining inspiration while watching him pitch on TV in the '90s even though Ryan was at the end of his career.

"He was still throwing 95-97 mph," Colon said. "I got excited, and got into it as I watched him play."

Up ahead for Colon is possibly another franchise milestone. As the clear front-runner for the AL Cy Young Award, Colon can join Dean Chance as the franchise's only winners of the honor for best pitcher. Chance won the award in 1964.

"It would mean a lot, especially to my family, the Angels fans and to my country," Colon said. "It is not time to hide from it anymore. It is out there."

Tuesday's win was Colon's ninth in his last 12 starts, with one loss in that span. Only once this season has Colon followed a loss with another loss. He enjoyed his best month in August, when he went 5-0 with a 1.72 ERA over six starts. Colon is 10-2 following an Angels loss, doing that which is most telling when describing an ace.

"Bart has done a great job this year stepping up and putting an end to a loss," Darin Erstad said.

Colon could make as many as three more starts if the Angels decide to start him on three days' rest for the remainder of the season. But after the game, manager Mike Scioscia said Colon's back, which has bothered him the past few weeks, could keep him from starting on short rest on Saturday vs. the Devil Rays.

But if Colon can work on three days' rest down the stretch, he would start the regular season finale in Texas. If the Angels need to clinch the AL West title -- they lead the A's by 1 1/2 games -- he'll likely go. But if they have the division wrapped up, Colon would be held over for the first start of the playoffs.

Either way, the Angels want Colon at his best, as he's proven to be invaluable to the club this season.

"It puts Bartolo in a special plateau of pitchers," Scioscia said of Colon's year. "I haven't seen that many pitchers that can throw it that hard with that kind of movement. He can get three different looks with his fastball."

Juan Rivera put the Angels on the board in the bottom of the second, when he drove a 3-2 pitch from Rangers starter Juan Dominguez into the Angels bullpen beyond the left-field fence for his 13th home run, setting a new career high.

The Angels scored again in the sixth, when Vladimir Guerrero singled with one out and went to second on a passed ball by Gerald Laird. After advancing to third on Erstad's infield single, Guerrero scored when Bengie Molina bounced to short to give the Angels a 2-0 lead.

The Rangers got on the board in the top of the seventh, when Michael Young led off with a double to extend his hitting streak to 17 games. Maicer Izturis then booted a sharp grounder by Mark Teixeira for an error. But after turning a double play when Hank Blalock bounced to third, Izturis committed his second error of the inning on a chopper by Alfonso Soriano allowing Young to score and cut the Angels' lead in half, 2-1.

Colon had a few tense moments over the final two innings when the Rangers put some runners aboard. After Gary Matthews Jr. walked, Izturis committed his third error, putting runners at second and third. But Kelvim Escobar got David Dellucci to hit one back to the mound. and Young lined out to third to end the inning.

In the ninth, Francisco Rodriguez allowed a leadoff walk to Teixeira and a two-out single to Kevin Mench, but struck out Adrian Gonzalez to end the game for his 39th save.

Colon's name wasn't among the favorites in the Cy Young race earlier in the year, but he's head and shoulders above the rest as the season wanes.

"He's been steady from start to finish," Byrd said. "It's his to lose."






