
BOSTON -- You have to give the Angels credit. The odds were against them. The setting was against them. Recent history was against them. And the umpiring crew wasn't doing them any favors, either.

But the Angels persevered, salvaging the final game of a three-game series against the Boston Red Sox. This 3-0 victory Thursday night also kept the Angels from falling back into a first-place tie with Oakland in the American League West.

But it was never easy, not a minute of it. Not only had the Angels lost the first two games of this series, they had lost, including postseason play, 12 of their last 13 games in Fenway Park. The Red Sox came in with a home record of 48-21, the best in the Majors. Plus, the Angels had been scuffling, scoring just 27 runs in the last 10 games.

Eventually, it was even tougher than all that. It could fairly be said that when the Angels triumphed in this one, so did justice. For the second straight night they were on the short end of a questionable call by an umpire -- the same umpire on both occasions. Larry Young may be a competent Major League umpire, but his work in the last two games stood only as an argument for instituting instant replay.

Wednesday night, Young, umpiring at third, ruled a checked swing on what could have been a third strike to David Ortiz. Replays showed that Ortiz did not check his swing. Given this reprieve, Ortiz hit a two-run single, part of a three-run Red Sox rally that made the difference in the game. Angels manager Mike Scioscia was ejected by Young after arguing the call.

Thursday night, the Angels opened the fourth inning with doubles by Chone Figgins and Orlando Cabrera, producing a run. Garret Anderson followed with a line drive down the right-field line. Trot Nixon made a beautiful catch at the edge of the stands. Cabrera dutifully tagged up and advanced to third.

That would have been that, except that the Red Sox appealed the play at second, hoping that they would get the ruling that Cabrera had left the base too soon. Young gave them that call. Cabrera was erased from the base paths and so was any reasonable chance of the Angels scoring any more runs in the inning.

But replays showed conclusively that Cabrera, a veteran and a baserunner of proven quality, did not leave early. He retreated to the bag, he waited for the catch and then he took off for third.

After the inning ended, enraged Angels hitting coach Mickey Hatcher was ejected by third base umpire Eric Cooper. Scioscia, who left the dugout to get between Hatcher and Cooper, was tossed by home plate umpire Marvin Hudson.

Scioscia had taken pains on Wednesday night not to blame the loss on a missed call, pointing out correctly that two walks and a misplayed fly ball had set the table for the winning Red Sox rally. Here, the manager had a victory to ease the frustration, but he was still less than enthralled with two straight nights of marginal calls going against his team.

"The first thing Larry told me, and I don't know if he even had a good angle on the play to see it, was that [Cabrera] didn't tag up," Scioscia said. "And then he said, no, he left early. I just think it's a play that Larry obviously missed.

"There are thousands of calls during the course of a season and these guys get them right most of the time. Some are 'bang-bang' and they might not go your way, but they're very, very close. But the calls the last two nights -- I thought they were just, you know, bad. I don't think there was any gray area at all in the two calls.

"A lot of calls are going to be made, some are going to go your way, some aren't, but I think that the two calls we saw on the last two consecutive nights were extreme."

Young told a pool reporter after the game that he had been in the correct position to make the call on Cabrera and that he believed that he made the right call.

This constitutes two of the three basic things that you want from an umpire: being in the right position to make the call and believing in his own good judgment.  The third thing would be getting the call right.

Scioscia's position in general is that the Angels should have a good enough club to absorb the occasional call that goes the wrong way, or any other bad break. But lately, the Angels' offense has been scuffling, creating "a fine line between winning and losing. It's unfortunate to be there, but that's where we are. We haven't been able to absorb bad breaks like I know we can if we're playing well."

Thursday night, though, the Angels had just enough hitting, and some brilliant clutch pitching, that allowed them to rise above whatever adversity occurred.

Fortunately for the Angels, while consternation seemed to be the order of the day, veteran starter Paul Byrd kept his cool and his command against the difficult Boston lineup.

Byrd pitched a shutout into the eighth and then Scot Shields took over, working out of a one-out, bases-loaded jam, striking out Edgar Renteria and then David Ortiz, who had beaten him with a walk-off homer two nights earlier, to end the threat. Francisco Rodriguez loaded the bases in the ninth but struck out three to get his 35th save.

It was a full evening: Anger, frustration, potential injustice, and then tension and drama. But the Angels had enough to find a victory and keep the potential recriminations to a minimum.

"It gets a little frustrating when we're not scoring. Everything's magnified. But we kept going," Scioscia said.

"Our guys battled. We're proud of 'em."






