
OAKLAND -- The pressure is off for Orlando Cabrera, who had his streak snapped at 63 games Friday.

The string of games in which he reached base by a hit, walk or hit by pitch put him in some select company. Ted Williams' streak of 84 games in 1949 is recognized as the record, while Joe DiMaggio put together a streak of 74 games in 1941, the same year he set a record with a 56-game hitting streak.

Cabrera, who began his streak on April 25, said he was not fully aware of it until it reached about 24 games, when some friends brought it to his attention.

"That was great," Cabrera said. "To be a free-swinger and reach base like that, for me, it is hard to believe. Everyone on the team told me it was awesome what I was doing."

Cabrera, who extended the streak with an eighth-inning single as recently as Monday, said he had it on his mind during his last at-bat Friday night.

"I was trying to have a quality at-bat and just let things happen," Cabrera said. "I was still hitting the ball pretty good. I was trying to find a good pitch to hit."

Cabrera's friends called him again Friday.

"At some point it has to come to an end," Cabrera said. "They told me I can just hit now."

Just a zero: John Lackey's one-hit gem on Friday night was the 11th one-hitter in the Majors this season and the 16th tossed in franchise history, but the right-hander took it one step further.

He allowed a leadoff double to Mark Kotsay and then tossed a "perfect" game by retiring 27 straight batters in the Angels' 3-0 victory. It was the fourth time since 1950 that a pitcher has spun the oddity and the first since Jerry Reuss did it for the Dodgers in an 11-1 win over the Reds on June 11, 1982.

Manager Mike Scioscia was behind the plate for the Dodgers that night, but he was hazy on the details. Lackey's Friday outing was much clearer.

"He had great stuff, and he pitched a great game. To pitch a one-hitter is a great accomplishment, but it was essentially a shutout," Scioscia said. "There have been a lot of games when a guy has great stuff but he gives up eight hits. Twenty-seven outs in a row is special, there is no doubt about it."

It was the third straight win for Lackey and second in a row in which he's recorded 10 strikeouts, matching his career high. He celebrated with his teammates afterward but with no greater emotion than any other win.

"It just turned out to be a shutout; I didn't get it done," Lackey said.

With a 7-5 record, Lackey has become the Angels steadiest pitcher. Ervin Santana leads the club with nine wins and can record his 10th on Sunday, but Lackey leads the starters with a 2.88 ERA. That mark is also second in the American League behind Minnesota's Johan Santana, and Lackey leads the league by holding opponents to a .195 batting average.

Lackey is also second in the AL with a 2.17 road ERA, but one trip he won't be making is to the All-Star Game. He's disappointed he won't be there.

"The won-loss record is what they look at first but it wasn't there," Lackey said. "I'd like to go. It is one of my goals. I'd like to do that at least once in my career."

Trainer's room: Garret Anderson was a late scratch from Saturday's lineup with a sore left hamstring. It was the second straight day out of the lineup for Anderson, who made the decision following batting practice.

Darin Erstad (sore right ankle) began doing some light jogging and shagging balls in the outfield Saturday but has not been cleared for running drills.

There is better news out of Arizona, where both Dallas McPherson (lower back strain) and Casey Kotchman (mononucleosis) should begin playing in games by the end of the month. Both have been rehabbing their injuries at the training facility and have started baseball related activities.

McPherson was eligible to come off the disabled list Saturday, while Kotchman has missed 54 games this season. Both players will require a rehab assignment before returning to the Angels.

"We're starting to see some light at the end of the tunnel with Dallas," Scioscia said.

On the farm: Vladimir Guerrero will start for the American League in Tuesday's All-Star Game, but the Angels will have further representation in Pittsburgh. Right-hander Nick Adenhart and second baseman Howie Kendrick are two prospects who will play for the U.S. squad in the XM Satellite Radio Futures All-Star Game on Sunday.

Adenhart went 10-2 with a 2.04 ERA in 16 starts at low Class A Cedar Rapids and is 1-0 with a 4.50 ERA in two starts since his promotion to high Class A Rancho Cucamonga. Kendrick is hitting .369 with 25 doubles, 13 homers and 61 RBIs in 68 games at Salt Lake. The World team won last year's Futures Game, 4-0.

On deck: The Angels will play the A's on Sunday to conclude their four-game series and bring a close to the first half of the season. Santana will face Oakland right-hander Dan Haren at 1:05 p.m. PT.






