
ANAHEIM -- John Lackey was dealing, Orlando Cabrera was stealing and the Angels can possibly say they're feeling a little more like themselves.

Lackey matched a career high with 10 strikeouts over 6 2/3 scoreless innings while Cabrera made the first straight steal of home by an Angel in nine years.

And on a day that he was left off the American League's All-Star roster, Cabrera also extended his streak of reaching base safely to 59 games with a double in the third inning. Vladimir Guerrero, who was voted into the All-Star Game by fans for the third straight year, drilled his 17th home run.

It was all more than enough for the Angels to record a 4-0 shutout of the Dodgers on a warm Sunday afternoon to take the series.

"He has been a catalyst, to get on base and fill some roles and drive in runs for us," manager Mike Scioscia said. "Orlando has brought so much to our club, and I don't know where we would be without him."

Cabrera set the tone in the bottom of the third inning when he doubled down the right-field line. Chone Figgins, who walked with one out, scored when J.D. Drew bobbled the ball for an error and Cabrera advanced to third.

On Chad Billingsley's 1-0 pitch to Guerrero, Cabrera broke for home. The Dodgers rookie halted his delivery and was initially called for a balk, but that was superseded by the stolen base.

"The whole game, every time when he pitched with nobody on base, he took a long time, like a pause, and he did it when I was on third base," Cabrera said. "I didn't waste too many pitches because Vladdy likes to swing early, and I went."

Cabrera said he first noticed Billingsley's pause on videotape and came up with a signal for Guerrero.

"After the first pitch, Orlando told me, 'I'm going to take a chance, so please get out of the way,'" Guerrero said through an interpreter. "I always look at the third-base coach and I happened to glance at Orlando, and he said something."

Teammates since their days in Montreal, Cabrera and Guerrero were confident their code would go undetected, even with Dodgers third baseman Cesar Izturis nearby. The Angels endorsed their line of communication.

"It is such an obscure play. The timing doesn't come up very often," Scioscia said. "Orlando studies pitchers as well as anyone, but that was as clean as you'll see. That was special."

The Angels finished Interleague Play, a slate contested entirely against the National League West, with a 7-11 mark, including going 2-4 against the Dodgers. Last season, the Angels went 12-6 against the NL and had a 5-1 record in games with their crosstown rivals.

The Angels head out on a seven-game road trip that will take them to Seattle and Oakland, two teams in front of them in the AL West.




Complete coverage &gt;

In the top of the seventh, home-plate umpire Derryl Cousins was hit on the left elbow from a pitch by Scot Shields and was removed from the game. Dodgers catcher Russell Martin swung and missed, and Mike Napoli tagged out Martin on the dropped third strike, but Cousins fell to one knee in obvious pain.

Angels head trainer Ned Bergert attended to Cousins, who was replaced behind the plate by Tim Timmons as the crew finished the game with three umpires. Cousins was diagnosed with soft tissue damage and was taken to the hospital for precautionary X-rays.

With Cabrera providing an offensive spark for the Angels, Lackey was in control from the first pitch and continued to dominate in recording his second straight win, only the second time this season he's won consecutive games.

With a sharp curveball, the right-hander retired the first eight batters he faced until Izturis ended the suspense by lining a single to left with two outs in the top of the third inning. Lackey allowed one hit in each of the next three innings and left in the seventh after issuing a two-out walk to Ramon Martinez.

It was the first walk by an Angels starter in the last 24 1/3 innings pitched and marked the second time that Lackey has recorded 10 strikeouts against the Dodgers. Opponents are hitting an AL-low .211 against Lackey this season, and he lowered his ERA to 3.12, which is second in the AL among starters.

"They were pretty aggressive," Lackey said of the Dodgers. "They showed they were going to swing, so I started throwing strikes."






