
ANAHEIM -- The Angels entered Sunday tied for the American League lead with a .986 fielding percentage, which would set a franchise record. Accordingly, it takes manager Mike Scioscia a while to run down the list of all the Angels he believes are worthy of consideration for Gold Glove Awards this year.

"I think it's probably rare that you're gonna talk about so many candidates on one team, but that's a nice luxury to have," he said. "We retooled some things this offseason to focus more on defense."

Namely, the Angels signed 2003 Gold Glove shortstop Orlando Cabrera, who's been a revelation defensively. He's the runaway league leader in fielding percentage (.991) among AL shortstops, 10 points better than runner-up Derek Jeter of the Yankees, and has shown excellent range in the field.

Cabrera's double-play partner, Adam Kennedy, ranks second in the league among second basemen with a .990 fielding percentage. As if that wasn't enough, first baseman Darin Erstad -- who won a Gold Glove in center field in 2000 and 2002 and at first in 2004 -- was the last AL first baseman to make an error this year and ranks third with a .997 fielding percentage. He also leads the league in zone rating (.908), a subjective stat measuring what percentage of playable balls a fielder manages to reach.

"We've got a first baseman, shortstop and second baseman that I think should win a Gold Glove," said utilityman Chone Figgins, who's played well all over the diamond. "Those guys are great in the infield."

Scioscia also praised catchers Bengie and Jose Molina for their strong arms and work behind the plate. Bengie Molina won the AL Gold Glove in 2002 and 2003, while Jose may have even better physical tools than his brother and has thrown out 54.3 percent of runners attempting to steal -- a percentage that would lead the league if he had played enough to qualify.

Lastly, Scioscia nominated right fielder Vladimir Guerrero, who has one of the strongest arms in baseball. Guerrero has eight outfield assists and has committed only three errors, which would be a career low.

"There's probably an argument to be made with Vlad in right field," he said, "because of the way he shuts down the running game."

Medical mentions: Garret Anderson served as the designated hitter Sunday for the second day in a row because of the patellar tendinitis in his left knee. Anderson has been playing through the irritation, though, and should be able to return to left field in the near future.

Left-hander Jarrod Washburn, battling tightness in his left forearm, has played catch without complications and may pitch in a game next weekend.

"Hopefully he's gonna be able to get out here early next week and test it some more," Scioscia said, "and hopefully get him in the rotation next weekend."

The road ahead: Tuesday through Thursday, the Angels will play Texas (75-75), while the second-place A's will play Minnesota (76-72) Monday-Wednesday.

The schedule also favors the Angels on Friday through Sunday, when they play 62-88 Tampa Bay as Oakland plays Texas. The A's and Angels will play four games in Oakland Sept. 26-29, after which the A's play three at Seattle (64-85) while the Angels play three in Texas to finish the regular season.

On deck: Bartolo Colon (19-7, 3.46 ERA) will try for win No. 20 Tuesday at 7:05 p.m. PT when he faces the Rangers' Juan Dominguez (3-4, 4.23 ERA).









