
Joe Saunders isn't easily rattled, but he was growing
restless. It was 2005. His first few starts of the
Double-A season hadn't gone as planned. Though he had
been a first-round Draft pick three years earlier,
Saunders looked around and, like a pitcher with the
bases loaded, found himself in a situation he didn't
like.

He was afraid of being left behind.

At only 26, Saunders believed he was coming to a
career crossroads. Arm injuries forced him to miss the
2003 season, and his last eight starts in Double-A in
2004 left much to be desired. He returned to Double-A
to begin the 2005 season and bounced through a series
of shaky starts in April.

So Saunders refocused. He decided that he needed to
pitch well immediately to make a statement and push
back into the Angels' plans.

"I had struggled a lot at the beginning of [2005] and
told myself that if I wanted to get to the next level,
I had to bear down and throw some innings out there
and really prove to this organization that I can
pitch," Saunders said.

That's a mentality he has not abandoned, even as he
has provided much-needed stability this season to the
back of the Angels' rotation. His season thus far,
though interrupted by four return trips to Triple-A
Salt Lake, has produced quality results. For Saunders,
it is a sign he may yet pitch himself into a
full-time job in the starting rotation once the path
is clear.

Getting there has required patience and the ability to
break through with an organization that, like many
teams, traditionally adheres to the Branch Rickey mold
of preferring hard-throwing right-handers rather than command-oriented left-handers. To call Saunders a finesse left-hander isn't fair. To call him a pitcher is.

"It's always tough when you make it to the big leagues
and get sent down the next day, or you get sent down
but they keep you around for a couple of days just in
case something happens with another guy," said
Saunders (7-2, 3.62 ERA), who will take the mound Friday
at Angel Stadium against the Rangers.

"It's like you're here, but you're not here. I
couldn't sit in the dugout because I wasn't on the
roster. I watched the game in the clubhouse."

Saunders has proven resilient in his effort to belong.
He's not overpowering, but has enough on his fastball.
His success is in locating and changing speeds with
his curveball and changeup. He gets hit to a certain
degree because he works around the plate (82 hits in
74 2/3 innings this year) and isn't afraid to
pitch to contact. But he also has almost twice as many
strikeouts (41) as he has walks (21).  He has also
worked past the fifth inning in each of his 12 Major
League starts this season and went 6-0 in his first
nine starts. The Angels are 9-3 in Saunders'
starts.

Much of that is a credit to Saunders' ability to
remain focused despite the circumstances out of his
control that have often affected his Major League opportunities. On the mound as well as off, Saunders has a firm grip of his situation. It's a trait that has benefited him.

"That's a good way to describe him," catcher Jeff
Mathis said. "He doesn't get real worked up about
much."

But that doesn't mean that Saunders hasn't felt
compelled to battle. After he missed all of the 2003
season because of a posterior left rotator cuff tear and a
detached labrum, Saunders knew he had to prove he was
healthy. Even after coming to the big leagues in 2005,
Saunders didn't feel safe.

"I thought that because of my struggles in '05 that
they pushed some people ahead of me," he said. "I know
they signed some guys in 2003 when I was hurt, because
I think they thought I was done."

Instead, Saunders maintained his determination.

He pitched his way out of Double-A in that 2005 season
and made nine Triple-A starts. The Angels brought him
to the big leagues for an emergency start on Aug.
16, and he allowed two runs in 7 1/3 innings in a
no-decision against Toronto.

That began the up-and-down big league experience of
Saunders. He went 7-3 with a 4.71 ERA in 13 starts
last year, decent numbers, but not enough to assure a
future with an organization that has pitching depth on
every level. It created a new obstacle. Saunders
wanted to prove that he was more than a replacement.
He wanted to prove that he is worthy of being a
regular.

"He's always been focused," Mathis said. "He's just
waiting for the next sign to be thrown down."

Saunders has had to wait for signs from the Angels. He
hoped to have a rotation shot in 2006, but the Angels
signed Jeff Weaver. Saunders' best opportunity came
when right-hander Bartolo Colon's health and
effectiveness had gradually broken down in the past
two seasons. Colon will be a free agent at the end of
the year.

Saunders knows better than to take anything for
granted in baseball. He remembers the feeling, earlier
this season, of watching the game inside the clubhouse
because he wasn't on the active roster.

"Yeah, it was a little degrading," he said. "You want
to go out and perform and win for the team and give it
your all for the team, and when they send you down but
they keep you around, it's like they want to keep you
but they can't. It's a double-edged sword."

Saunders' response has been sharp. Two of his
victories this season have come against the Red Sox, a potential playoff opponent. He also has victories against Seattle and Cleveland.

"In my mind, it's proving a point," he said. "I tried
to do that last year. I thought I proved to them last
year that I could pitch at this level. I had a couple
of bad starts, but other than that, I thought I proved
that I could pitch here."

Manager Mike Scioscia said he has been pleased with
the way Saunders has thrown the ball and attacked
hitters.

"He's improved against right-handed hitters and
overall done a pretty good job for us," Scioscia
said.

Saunders has maintained the balance that has allowed
him to gain firmer ground on the Angel Stadium
mound.

"When I got called up for the spot starts and I knew I
was getting sent down the same night, it was tough to
say, 'Hey, you're here,'" he said. "You have to block
that out and say, 'Hey, you're getting a lot of
opportunities that thousands of kids in this world
would dream of.' You block that out there, and once you
get here, you pitch and try to win."

Saunders leaned back in the dugout and allowed for a
smile. So far, he has succeeded in overcoming what was
once an uncertain future.






