
The future success of every Major League team lies in its minor league system. With that in mind, MLB.com takes a top-to-bottom look at all 30 organizations, from top prospects to recent draft picks.

You've got to give the Angels credit for taking chances on the scouting and player development front. The risks haven't always worked out, but with the depth they have in their system, they won't necessarily feel the pain from the misses as much as some other organizations might.

In last year's draft, they saw Jered Weaver drop to them at No. 12. They took the Scott Boras

client despite the signability issues and it looks like they won't be able to sign him. With

their next pick, they took Patrick White, a high school outfielder who also was a football star.

After originally indicating he would sign, he reversed field and went to West Virginia to play

quarterback. On the plus side, they took chances on taking first-round talents in Nick Adenhart

(14th) and Mark Trumbo (18th). Adenhart was coming off of surgery and seemed headed to North

Carolina and Trumbo was supposedly very committed to USC. But the Angels got both to sign.

The Angels took a chance on the international front as well, signing Cuban defector Kendry

Morales to a six-year deal.

The key to all of this, of course, is the willingness of ownership to allocate considerable

resources to scouting and development, even though there won't be immediate return on the

investment (The Weaver negotiations proved, however, that the Angels will not be held ransom in

this regard).

Cushioning the blow is the fact the Angels have a ton of big-league ready -- or close to it --

talent. The biggest promotion is being handed to Dallas McPherson, who's being asked to replace

Troy Glaus at third, but Casey Kotchman, Jeff Mathis and Ervin Santana aren't far behind. And

there's another wave in back of that group waiting to move up the ladder as well.


2004 Organizational Record


League (Level)         Team          W   L    PCT
Pacific Coast (AAA)    Salt Lake     68  75  .476
Texas (AA)             Arkansas      70  70  .500
California (A)         R. Cucamonga  74  66  .529
Midwest (A)            Cedar Rapids  66  72  .478
Pioneer (R)            Provo         54  22  .711
Arizona (R)            AZL Angels    21  35  .375
Total                               353  340 .509


2004 Organizational Leaders

Batting average: Casey Kotchman, .371
Home runs: Dallas McPherson, 40
Runs batted in: Dallas McPherson, 126
Stolen bases: Erick Aybar, 51
ERA: Abel Moreno, 3.41
Wins: Jake Woods, 15
Strikeouts: Steven Shell, 190
Saves: Von Stertzbach, 26

Five Faves








Spotlight onthe AngelsAn up-close look at the club as we approach Opening Day

&#149; Schlegel: Halos and good buys
&#149; Heat is on: Francisco Rodriguez
&#149; Top prospect: Casey Kotchman
&#149; Breakout player: Chone Figgins
&#149; Angels organization report
&#149; Angels Spring Training preview
&#149; Angels Spring Training quick hits

&#149; Video preview
MLB.com spotlights the team directly from Tempe: 56K | 350K






More team spotlights:


American &not;
Angels
Athletics
Blue Jays
Devil Rays
Indians
Mariners
Orioles
Red Sox
Royals
Rangers
Tigers
Twins
White Sox
Yankees




National &not;
Astros
Braves
Brewers
Cardinals
Cubs
D-Backs
Dodgers
Giants
Marlins
Mets
Nationals
Padres
Phillies
Pirates
Reds
Rockies







Five prospects whose names you should know:

Jeff Mathis, C
Despite Mathis' second-half swoon in 2004 -- leading to a .227 final average -- there has been

no shift in expectations in the organization for Mathis. Largely because of manager Mike

Scioscia's past career, catching is evaluated more than any other position in the system. Mathis

had a strong first half, but when he wore down in the second (both physically and mentally), he

didn't make the mechanical adjustments necessary. He's still considered by many to be the best

catching prospect in the minors and he'll play the 2005 season at age 22. He'll probably go back

to Arkansas to rid himself of last year's bad taste, but could move up if the need arises. He's

still on pace to reach Anaheim in 2006.

Ervin Santana, RHP

The biggest thing the Angels would like to see from Santana is a full healthy season. There's

little doubt about his stuff (438 K's in 422 1/3 IP) and now it's time for him to start

fulfilling his potential. He's never spent a full season at Double-A, so he'll likely start

there. He's looked good this spring and will earn a promotion if he continues to pitch well.

Casey Kotchman, 1B

In a perfect world, Darin Erstad would move back to the outfield to allow Kotchman, 22, to take

over at first. Alas, this isn't a perfect world. Kotchman and his .342 career minor league

average will probably head back to Salt Lake City to start the season. He's still young enough

where it won't hurt him and he gives the Angels some depth at first. And since Erstad never gets

hurt...oh, wait.

Dallas McPherson, 3B

The DallyMac era is about to begin. McPherson is now the starter at third after the Angels

allowed Troy Glaus to leave via free agency. McPherson hit 43 homers combined in 2004 and the

Angels hope he can contribute some power to the lineup in his rookie season. He'll also swing

and miss a lot; he did strike out 186 times last year. He tends to start slowly then picks it

up, so the Angels will have to show patience. They'll also have to allow McPherson to continue

to grow defensively. He's made a lot of progress at third, working with Alfredo Griffin

tirelessly to the point the Angels think he can be a quality defender.

Erick Aybar, SS

Aybar is a fun player to watch on both sides of the ball. A switch-hitter, he can swing well

from both sides and has a .321 average in the minors. He can fly, stealing 51 bases in 2004.

Defensively, he makes the easy and hard plays at short. After hitting .330 in the California

League and then more than holding his own against big leaguers in the Dominican League this past

winter, he's earned a promotion to Double-A.

Others to watch:  Chris Bootcheck, RHP; Albert Callapso, 2B; Nick Gorneault, OF; Dustin

Moseley, RHP; Kevin Jepsen, RHP; Howie Kendrick, 2B; Warner Madrigal, OF; Kendry Morales, OF;

Sean Rodriguez, SS/3B; Joe Saunders, LHP; Steve Shell, RHP; Reggie Willits, OF; Brandon Wood,

SS; Jake Woods, LHP; Bob Zimmermann, RHP



Cinderella Story

Von Stertzbach has pitched his way onto the Angels' map.

The ninth-round pick in 2003 began his first full season as a reliever in Cedar Rapids. After

nine games and 13 2/3 scoreless innings (during which he struck out 18 and walked one), the

Central Florida product moved up to Rancho Cucamonga. He saved 21 games there, striking out 54

in 48 IP, giving him 26 saves to lead the organization for the season. In his brief career, he's

struck out 123 and walked 28 in 103 1/3 IP.

Needless to say, the Angels are intrigued. Stertzbach is a great competitor with a closer's

mentality, but it's unclear whether he has the stuff to close in the big leagues. But that's

neither here nor there. The Angels are fairly confident they've found a future big league

reliever and invited him to big league camp, where he tossed 3 1/3 scoreless innings to start.

He should make the next step up the ladder with a move to Arkansas in 2005. 

Arrivals&Departures

Quick hits on some key additions to -- and subtractions from -- the Angels system.

Arrivals


Maicer Izturis, INF: Izturis, a slick glove at short and second, hit .338 in Triple-A

last year, then came to the Angels in the Jose Guillen trade.

Kendry Morales, OF/1B: The Cuban defector supposedly carries a big stick, but visa delays

make it certain he'll start the year in the minors.

Dustin Moseley, RHP: The finesse righty came to the Angels from Cincinnati for Ramon

Ortiz.

Departures

Alfredo Amezaga, SS: Amezaga logged some time as a utilityman in the big leagues the last

three seasons, but never stuck. Now he'll try his luck in Colorado.

Steven Andrade, RHP: Andrade had 286 strikeouts in 201 IP in the minors, so the Blue Jays

claimed him when the Angels tried to sneak him through waivers.

Bobby Jenks, RHP: Coming back from a second elbow stress reaction, the Angels designated

Jenks. The White Sox claimed him off waivers.

2004 draft recap

1. Jered Weaver, RHP
Did not sign

Once thought to be the top overall pick in the draft, Weaver dropped to No. 12 because of

signability concerns. Those proved to have some basis in truth as Anaheim has yet to bring the

Scott Boras client into the fold. After much going back and forth, the Angels broke off talks in

early March and seemed resigned to the fact he wouldn't sign and would re-enter the draft in

2005.

2. Patrick White, OF
Did not sign

The Angels' second pick didn't come until the fourth round and they took another chance with

White, a high school outfielder. White originally made it apparent he would sign, but then

changed his mind. Instead, he headed to West Virginia, where he redshirted as a freshman

quarterback.

3. Luis Rivera, OF
.218 AVG/ .361 OBP/ .266 SLG

Rivera is a very young and raw outfielder who will play this season at age 18. He's got some

athletic ability and has shown a good arm in the outfield and the ability to swing the bat. He's

a bit more of a project so the Angels will have to be patient with him. He'll head to extended

Spring Training and then possibly on to Provo.

4. Josh LeBlanc, 2B
.297 AVG/ .394 OBP/ .449 SLG

The Southern University A&M second baseman debuted in the Pioneer League and made strides on

both sides of the ball. He's athletic and fun to watch (14 steals), but he's a bit green and

rough around the edges at second. He's drawn some comparisons to another Angels' farmhand, Howie

Kendrick, and he seems to be the type that the more he plays, the better he'll get. He could get

pushed to Cedar Rapids to start the year.

5. Bill Layman, RHP
2-2, 4.91 ERA, 40.1 IP, 44 H, 28 BB, 51 K

Layman proved to be the leader of the Provo team that went 54-22 last year. The North Florida

right-hander throws a fastball, changeup and slider/slurve and showed the ability to command all

the pitches for strikes. He should move up to a full-season club in 2005.

Best of the rest: 3B Andre Toussaint (13) hit .289/ .409/ .557 in the Pioneer League. ...

RHP Chris Waters (16) had a 2.91 ERA and 47 strikeouts in 46 1/3 IP for Provo. ... OF D.T.

McDowell (20) hit .310 in limited time (58 at-bats) in the Arizona league. ... 2B Nathanael

Sutton (24) hit .328 and had a .455 OBP in 180 AB for Provo.


Looking ahead: Needs for the 2005 draft

The Angels had a very interesting draft last year, taking some risks on guys with football

backgrounds. They're athletic, but they're raw, so it may take them more time to develop, with

some at least four or five years away from being ready.

While waiting for some of those players, the Angels could use some outfield depth in the system,

guys who might move more quickly through the system. It's likely that scouting director Eddie

Bane will continue to take the best available player with each pick, but don't be surprised if

some college outfielders end up in the organization before the draft is over.

Quotables

Tony Reagins, director of player development:

"I think we're in pretty good shape. We continually try to get better, but I think the overall

health of the organization, there's a lot of kids who are interesting. There are players with

tremendous upside. Our pitchers are coming along, guys who are coming back. We start getting

guys back from injury and we think the overall health of the organization is good. We're going to have some tough decisions to make in Spring Training. There are going to be some great competitions."






