
TORONTO -- Ervin Santana is rejoining the Angels to work the second game of Friday's doubleheader at Fenway Park against Boston. He'll face Red Sox ace Josh Beckett after Angels ace John Lackey pitches the early game, presumably against rookie right-hander Clay Buchholz.

Santana has shown quality stuff and improved command in five appearances at Triple-A Salt Lake following his July 18 demotion, drawing positive reports from Bees manager Brian Harper and pitching coach Charles Nagy.

In 32 1/3 innings, Santana has notched 32 strikeouts while walking only 10 hitters. He's 2-1 in the hitter-friendly Pacific Coast League with a 5.01 ERA, opponents batting .301 against him.

Santana's struggles with the Angels this season included an April 16 loss to Beckett and the Red Sox at Fenway Park. Santana gave up seven runs, five earned, in four innings. The big news that day was Vladimir Guerrero taking a 96 mph fastball from Beckett on his right hand, forcing him out of two games with a deep bruise.

The Angels lost all three games in Boston, going 1-7 on that trip. An April 15 rainout was rescheduled for Friday, the first day of the weekend series, so there would be protection against another rainout.

That created a situation calling for the Angels to play at least 27 innings in about 27 hours, flying from Toronto to Boston after Thursday night's series finale with the Blue Jays.

Angels manager Mike Scioscia said the decision to have Santana pitch the second game had nothing to do with a desire to avoid a Lackey-Beckett showdown of All-Stars.

"John would welcome the matchup with Beckett," Scioscia said. "That's not the reason we're lining him up this way. He went to Boston [early Thursday]. To have him ready to go, rather than waiting around, is better for him.

"Hopefully, the length will be there for Ervin to give him a chance to win and not disrupt the pitching staff. No doubt he's made progress and is feeling better about his game."

Santana's final start before his demotion was a loss at Tampa Bay on July 17. He went six innings, yielding seven earned runs and 14 hits. He was 5-11 with a 6.22 ERA -- a far cry from his 16-8 record and 4.28 ERA in 2006.

"Certainly, there's still room for him to get to his maximum potential," Scioscia said of the 24-year-old Santana. "That would be a terrific pitcher."


Kendrick might return: Second baseman Howie Kendrick is a candidate to be recalled on Saturday if the pitching staff isn't in such repair that another arm is needed, Scioscia said.

Sidelined since July 14 with his second fractured finger of the season, to his left index finger, Kendrick had two hits for Salt Lake on Wednesday as the Bees' DH, scoring a run in a 10-9 win over Tucson. Kendrick is hitting .306 in 10 games at Salt Lake.

"Kendrick is a possibility," Scioscia said. "All that hinges on if we play two extra inning games and go through every reliever we have Friday, we're going to look at a different direction with our roster."


Rivera promoted: Juan Rivera, finally back on the field after breaking his left leg in winter ball in Venezuela last December, was elevated to Triple-A Salt Lake on Thursday after having a breakout game on Wednesday for Class A Rancho Cucamonga.

"In the batter's box, Rivera's getting comfortable," Scioscia said. "His bat speed's picking up. He's still working his way through some things running. Overall, he's getting out there and getting his Spring Training legs under him."

Rivera had a double, two singles and two RBIs in a 10-3 win over Lake Elsinore. Through three games for Rancho Cucamonga, twice playing the outfield, Rivera was hitting .400, striking out twice in 10 at-bats.


Napoli not ready: Not fully recovered from his right hamstring strain, catcher Mike Napoli probably won't be activated by the end of the road trip. He might need to play some Minor League rehab games before rejoining the lineup.

"Mike is still nursing it," Scioscia said. "He's making some progress, but it's coming a little slower than we anticipated. He did run today, but not full-out."

Backup Ryan Budde is expected to catch Santana in Friday's nightcap, giving Jeff Mathis a break. Mathis has caught in 19 straight games, 18 as the starter.


Colon throws Saturday: Encouraged by his work on Wednesday in the bullpen, throwing 46 pitches, the Angels will have Bartolo Colon (right elbow impingement) throw to hitters on Saturday at Fenway Park.

"It'll probably be a 30- to 40-pitch simulated game," Scioscia said. "There will be more intensity, so he'll get more out of it."


Minor sensations: Kendry Morales, Mike Eylward and backup catcher Tim Duff each homered in Salt Lake's 10-9 win over Tucson. Morales, hoping to get a return ticket to Anaheim, is hitting .328 with a .450 slugging percentage.

On Aug. 16 in Angels history: How great was Nolan Ryan in his prime? Pitching for a club that was 24 games under .500, The Express ran his record to 16-12 in 1974 with a win over Milwaukee, striking out nine in 7 1/3 innings. His 16 wins represented one-third of the Angels' season total.


Up next: A day/night doubleheader at Fenway Park on Friday starts with a 10:05 a.m. PT game matching Lackey (15-6, 3.07) against rookie Buchholz (no record). The 7:05 p.m. PT nightcap features Boston's Beckett (15-5, 3.24) against Santana (5-11, 6.22).







