
ANAHEIM -- Ervin Santana and the Angels may have issues on the road, but in Anaheim they are right at home.



Santana (2-2) went seven strong innings on Sunday afternoon as the Angels defeated the Seattle Mariners, 6-1. The Angels' victory completed a three-game sweep of their division foe, as they outscored the Mariners 21-11 in the series and improved their record to 8-2 at home.



Santana, who improved his lifetime record at Angel Stadium to 21-5, allowed one earned run on six hits with one walk and five strikeouts in the victory.


Santana's splits are quite the opposite on the road, where he is 9-13 with a 6.78 ERA in his career, but the numbers don't bother him.



"I just try to pitch the same game, with the same routine, every time," said the pitcher. "When I get ahead to the hitters, everything is going to be easier, and everything was good today."



"Ervin got real simple with his stuff today," said Angels manager Mike Scioscia. "He was aggressive with everything and he got back to basics. The sign of a good pitcher is when he can go to that extra gear in tough situations, and he did that today."



The weekend series against the Mariners spawned a revival of the Angels' dormant bats as well. They had at least 10 hits in each game of the series, and scored at least six runs in each of the three contests. That was in direct contrast to their recent eight-game road trip, where they went 1-7 while being outscored 44-16.



"We've had two 180-degree turnarounds with our offense already this season," said Scioscia.  "When we put pressure on teams by getting on base early in innings like we did this weekend, that is when we will be successful."



Just like in the previous two contests against the Mariners, the Angels jumped out to an early lead, scoring twice in the second on an Erick Aybar infield hit and a Gary Matthews Jr. double to left.



Casey Kotchman then belted his first career triple in the third, scoring Garret Anderson from first. That was the final run Mariners starter Jeff Weaver would allow, as manager Mike Hargrove pulled him when he got out of the inning.



Sunday was Weaver's first appearance against the Angels since being traded last season to St. Louis for a Minor Leaguer. He went on to win a World Series with the Cardinals, but Sunday will go down as a much worse memory for him. Weaver (0-3) needed 68 pitches to get through his three innings, in which he allowed three earned runs on seven hits, but still managed to lower his ERA on the year to 13.91.



In a reversal from the two previous games in the series when the Angels' bullpen struggled mightily, allowing nine earned runs in five innings, Justin Speier and Dustin Moseley each pitched a scoreless inning in relief of Santana on Sunday to preserve the win.



Vladimir Guerrero continued his torrid hitting since missing two games last week with a bruised hand. Guerrero was 2-for-4 on Sunday with one RBI, his 16th in 16 games this year. He finished the three-game set against the Mariners 6-for-11 with two home runs and four RBIs. He is now batting an even .400 on the season, tops in the American League.



Anderson had two RBIs in the game, one coming on his fifth-inning double and one on a sacrifice fly.


Sunday's win brought the Angels' record back to .500, evening it at 9-9.

Their win, combined with the Oakland Athletics' loss at Texas, brought the Angels into a first-place tie with the A's in the American League West.


The Angels open a two game series at Angel Stadium on Monday night against the defending American League champion Detroit Tigers.  Jered Weaver will take the mound for his second start of the season, opposing the Tigers' Mike Maroth.



Sunday's crowd of 43,628 was the fourth sellout so far this season at Angel Stadium.






