
ST. PETERSBURG -- The Devil Rays had been putting up some big numbers lately, and John Lackey figured he could put it to use.

The Rays put 14 and then 13 runs on the board in a pair of wins over the Orioles this weekend, and after watching the videotape, Lackey saw an aggressive lineup that liked to get after it.

So with eight workmanlike innings Monday night, Lackey spotted his fastball and sprinkled in some breaking balls to help the Angels to an 8-4 win over the Rays to open the series.

"I knew they were swinging the bats well," Lackey said. "I was able to locate and get some early-count outs."

Adam Kennedy drove in three runs, Garret Anderson went 3-for-5 and Juan Rivera hit his ninth home run of July as the Angels won their third straight and 16th in their last 20 games

The Angels moved into a tie for first place in the American League West with the A's, who lost to the Red Sox on Monday. The Angels haven't been in first since April 29.

Robb Quinlan, who started at first base and will likely see a lot of action there after Kendry Morales was sent down to Triple-A Salt Lake in a postgame move, went 2-for-4 with two RBIs. The Angels purchased the contract of Bees outfielder Curtis Pride and added him to the 40-man roster to take the spot vacated by Morales.

"You never know when your name is going to be in the lineup, so you have to come to the park ready every day," Quinlan said. "I've been given opportunities against lefties and that has been my role. Maybe I'll get more opportunities now."

Lackey put his last start behind him, when he allowed five runs and 10 hits in a loss to the Indians. That afternoon ended a scoreless innings streak that had reached 30 2/3 before a two-run homer by Ben Broussard. During his streak, Lackey had tossed consecutive shutouts and struck out 10 batters in three straight starts.

The right-hander ran off another string of zeroes Monday, as he held the Devil Rays scoreless for the first four innings, and allowed just one baserunner on Ty Wigginton's two-out single in the first.

Lackey also recorded six of his seven strikeouts in the first four innings, including four straight at one point. But in the bottom of the fifth, Maicer Izturis could not handle a sharply hit ground ball from Jorge Cantu for an error, and Travis Lee followed with a double. Lackey then walked Jonny Gomes and gave up a run on Dioner Navarro's groundout to second and another on a sac fly to left by Tomas Perez.

He sailed through the sixth on three flyouts, but Cantu opened the seventh with a single and scored on Lee's triple into the right-field corner. Navarro then plated Lee with a ground ball.

Lackey (9-6) allowed four runs, two of which were earned, on five hits with one walk to defeat the Devil Rays for the second time this season. Jae Seo (0-5) allowed six runs on eight hits and four walks over five innings to take the loss.

"John threw some good innings, and he had to work for some outs," manager Mike Scioscia said. "He made pitches and gave us a chance to score some runs."

Those chances came early and provided Lackey with a comfort zone to locate.

The Angels took a 1-0 lead on Kennedy's sac fly in the top of the second before breaking out with four runs in the third, when Orlando Cabrera doubled into the left-field corner and Vladimir Guerrero walked to open the inning.

Anderson followed with an RBI single to score Cabrera, and Rivera lifted a sac fly to left for a 3-0 Angels lead. Mike Napoli then walked and Kennedy capped the inning with a two-run double into the left-center gap. Rivera added a solo homer in the fifth as the Angels built a 6-0 lead.

"That ball was properly struck," Scioscia said.

It was the 15th homer this season for Rivera, who matched his home run output of last season.

"He got on a great roll for us last year," Scioscia said. "He's given us a big lift to say the least."

The Angels scored twice more in the seventh, as Anderson led off the inning with a single to center and Napoli walked with one out. After a ground ball by Kennedy advanced both runners a base, Quinlan knocked in a pair with a single to right and the Angels led, 8-2.






