
ANAHEIM -- Reggie Willits had another of those Reggie Willits nights -- two hits and a walk, two runs scored, two RBIs, quality defense -- but, in the catalyst's mind, it was Ervin Santana who illuminated Angel Stadium on Friday night.

"That's the real Santana," Willits said, the Angels' gifted right-hander having outdueled All-Star Brad Penny in a 9-1 knockout of the Dodgers in front of 44,342 in the first installment of Interleague Play, 2007 variety.

Ending an 0-3 dry spell across his previous four starts, Santana delivered six strong innings, limiting the Dodgers to one run and frustrating them with a superb job of pitching out of trouble before it became a rout with a five-run sixth.

It was the fifth inning, the Angels leading, 3-1, when the Dodgers put runners on the corners with none out. Juan Pierre lined to second. Nomar Garciaparra took a third strike on a pitch he judged low. Jeff Kent popped to short.

Not a bad trio of hitters to dispatch in a potential game-turning situation.

"He's a great pitcher, and he showed it right there," Willits said of the 24-year-old Santana, who moved to 3-5 with airtight relief from Darren Oliver and Hector Carrasco. "Ervin has unbelievable stuff. I've never doubted anything he can do.

"He's a big-time pitcher. He's shown it in the past and he'll show it again. That's the Santana I think you're going to see from now on."

This was the Ervin Santana who finished second in the American League in hits allowed per nine innings (7.99) last year behind that other Santana, Minnesota's Johan.

Ervin will have a chance to cure what bugs him -- his difficulties on the road -- in his next start at Detroit. Angels manager Mike Scioscia is optimistic that the man who finished 16-8 last year is back on track, ready to whittle away at those disturbing numbers this year (0-4, 7.86 ERA) in unfriendly environs.

"If he brings that stuff he had tonight into a road ballpark," Scioscia said, "he's going to have success. His stuff was alive tonight.

"We have a lot of confidence in what Ervin's going to do. The stuff is there. He just needs to repeat pitches, do all the things he was doing tonight."

Willits, meanwhile, has had no trouble repeating his highly productive performances.

The tough-minded Oklahoman has reached base in 26 of the 27 games in which he's had an at-bat. He's now batting .371 with a .455 on-base percentage.



Complete coverage &gt;  


The Angels scored in the first when Willits coaxed a leadoff walk against Penny, scoring on Orlando Cabrera's ringing double to the left-center gap. That usually means good things are in store. The Angels are 17-3 when they score in the first inning, having outscored teams by 46-15.

"That's something we should probably keep doing," Willits deadpanned through a grin.

Two innings later, leading off again, Willits singled, stole second and scored on Vlad Guerrero's infield out. The steal was Willits' ninth without getting caught.

Two-out doubles by Luis Gonzalez and Russell Martin cut the deficit in half in the fourth, but a spectacular leaping catch at first by Casey Kotchman on a bullet off Andre Ethier's bat seemed to mute the Dodgers for the rest of the night.

The Angels made it 3-1 against Penny in the fourth on Mike Napoli's sacrifice fly following Maicer Izturis' walk and Shea Hillenbrand's single.

The Angels broke it open in the sixth with consecutive hits by Gary Matthews Jr., Kotchman, Izturis, Hillenbrand and Napoli chasing Penny. There would be another theft -- by the catcher, Napoli, his third -- as the Angels ran the bases aggressively during the uprising that culminated in Willits' two-run single against veteran reliever Rudy Seanez.

Penny, leading the Major Leagues with a 1.39 ERA coming into the game, watched it balloon to 2.54 giving up eight earned runs on eight hits in five-plus innings.

A double by Kotchman, his second hit, and Izturis' second hit led to a run in the seventh on Hillenbrand's sacrifice fly.

"We scratched some runs together and held the lead until we broke it open," Scioscia said.

The Angels lead the all-time series, 31-26. The Angels are 91-86 since the advent of Interleague Play in 1997, and the Dodgers are 80-82.

The clubs go at it again on Saturday night with Jered Weaver taking on Dodgers southpaw Mark Hendrickson.

"It was a good atmosphere," Willits said, thoroughly enjoying his introduction to the Freeway Series rivalry. "It was fun playing in, I can tell you that.

"We've got some of the best fans in baseball. There was probably a little more [buzz] than normal, but the fans here are always great."

Maybe what Santana needs to do is convince himself they're with him in hostile parks.






