
ANAHEIM -- With their emphasis on pitching, small-ball tactics and defense, the Angels don't find themselves in too many slugfests. Against the Yankees, though, the Halos have shown they can run up the score when they have to -- and find a variety of ways to do it.

The Angels made the most of their 11 hits in an 8-6 victory over New York on Saturday, providing enough cushion for rookie Ervin Santana (5-4) to win consecutive decisions for the first time in his career despite rather tenuous command.

The big blow was Vladimir Guerrero's go-ahead, three-run homer in the third, but the Angels also put together a four-run fourth. One night after scoring six runs without the benefit of an extra-base hit, the Angels banged out four multibase knocks to notch their third straight comeback win over the Yankees.

Guerrero is only 2-for-12 in the series, but he's certainly made the most of the two, with a go-ahead grand slam Thursday and his go-ahead drive Saturday. In the midst of the Angels' nuanced offense, Guerrero provides an oasis of power -- even in the midst of a 4-for-38 slump.

"Even when he's struggling, he's not struggling. He has that ability to somehow find a way to get it done," said Darin Erstad, whose two-run double keyed the Angels' fourth. "And we're still winning games without him carrying us, so that's a good sign."

The Angels are batting only .231 with three homers since the All-Star break, but they're 7-3 since then and have a chance at a four-game sweep the Yankees on Sunday afternoon.

Santana's pitching line Saturday wasn't particularly pretty -- five innings, seven hits, three walks, four runs (three earned) -- but his gritty effort helped the Angels carry their early lead to the back of their bullpen. After Guerrero's homer in the bottom of the third, Santana set the tone with a 1-2-3 inning.

"After that, I was thinking, 'Get the first-pitch strikes and get the guys out,'" Santana said. "You have to put up zeros. You never know what's going to happen until the last out."

Particularly against the Bronx Bombers, who overcame a rough start by Kevin Brown (4-7) to keep things close until the end. Brown gave up six hits, four walks and seven runs in 3 1/3 innings, but thanks to back-to-back homers by Derek Jeter and Robinson Cano in the third and a two-run shot by Jason Giambi off Esteban Yan in the seventh, the Yankees were able to bring the tying run to the plate in the eighth.

"You know you have to be consistent on every pitch ... if you make a mistake, boom, right there," Santana said. "They're a very good team, superstars. It's not easy to pitch to those guys."

Alex Rodriguez's RBI single in the first, and the back-to-back homers by Jeter and Cano made it 3-1 in the third. But the Angels came right back in their half when Adam Kennedy and Chone Figgins walked and scored on Guerrero's homer to dead center.

The Angels also scored in the second, when Garret Anderson doubled and scored on Bengie Molina's groundout. In the fourth, Jeff DaVanon led off with a walk and Kennedy singled. DaVanon scored when Figgins doubled to chase Brown and both Figgins and Kennedy scored when Erstad doubled off reliever Alex Graman. Steve Finley singled to score Erstad, making it 8-3.

"We had a lot of opportunities tonight," manager Mike Scioscia said, "and we hit well with guys in scoring position."

The first three Yankees to bat against Santana in the fifth reached safely -- Gary Sheffield's RBI single made it 8-4 -- but the rookie struck out two men to prevent further damage. Santana credited his changeup with helping keep the Yankees somewhat off-balance.

The Angels bullpen made the lead stand up. Scot Shields threw a scoreless eighth and Francisco Rodriguez worked a perfect ninth, throwing only seven pitches. Giambi's homer off Yan accounted for the first runs against the Halos bullpen in 24 2/3 innings since the All-Star break.

"There are some guys down there that we're using a lot," Scioscia said. "They're holding up well, but it's certainly something we'll keep an eye on."

Both Rodriguez and Shields have appeared in seven of the Angels' 10 games since the break. Shields has notched seven holds and Rodriguez has recorded seven saves -- a heavy workload, sure, but the kind that neither reliever minds.






