
ANAHEIM -- They meet again, six months later, at the scene of the accident -- Fenway Park.

The Angels were hit-and-run victims of the Red Sox in October in the American League Division Series. On their merry way to the World Series championship, the Sox hit the debilitated Angels hard and ran through them in three straight games, the first two in front of the Fenway fanatics.

The numbers reflect the full measure of the Boston conquest. The Angels batted .192, with a .253 team slugging percentage. The Red Sox hit .269 with a .495 slugging mark.

A two-man wrecking crew, David Ortiz and Manny Ramirez combined to go 8-for-16 (.500) with 11 walks, 20 total bases, four homers and seven RBIs in the three games. Add Mike Lowell, and the threesome was 11-for 24 (.458) with 25 total bases, 12 walks and 10 RBIs.

The Angels produced four runs in the series. The Nos. 3-4 hitters, Vladimir Guerrero and Garret Anderson, were 4-for-19 with no RBIs and two walks. Casey Kotchman was hitless in five at-bats with two walks.

That was then. This is now. The Angels are in much better shape, physically and emotionally, with bodies mended and several key imports providing offensive production and defense (from Torii Hunter) and pitching (from Jon Garland). 
Most significant, the lineup that was hobbled and cobbled together by manager Mike Scioscia is alive and kicking.

While Ortiz, Ramirez and Lowell were pounding away in October, Guerrero (right elbow, left shoulder blade), Anderson (conjunctivitis) and Gary Matthews Jr. (left knee tendinitis) were either impaired or unavailable. Matthews was forced out of the series, which meant third baseman Chone Figgins had to move to the outfield to plug holes.

Complicating matters further, Kotchman was hospitalized after getting sick on the flight from Boston to Anaheim after Game 2 and was not at Angel Stadium for the season-ending 9-1 loss.

They are not entirely intact for this series, with second baseman Howie Kendrick and his .500 average on the 15-day disabled list with a strained left hamstring. Maicer Izturis and rookie Sean Rodriguez are filling the void at second. 
But the overall health is good. Kotchman is off to a hot start, and so are Hunter, Figgins, catchers Mike Napoli and Jeff Mathis and Erick Aybar, the new shortstop. The Angels are among the AL leaders in most offensive categories, and their defense has been first-rate behind a pitching staff that has absorbed the absences of twin aces John Lackey and Kelvim Escobar with resolve and resilience.

"The downfall of our season came at the end of the season, when everybody got hurt," batting coach Mickey Hatcher said after the series. "Our center fielder [Matthews] was hurt. Guerrero was hurt. Garret's eye ... Kotchman in the hospital.

"If those things didn't happen, I think we'd have had a great playoffs. When our guys were healthy, we played great baseball. It just all hit us at the wrong time. We'd have loved to have our best guys lined up out there for the playoffs.

"It's so easy for everybody to criticize what happened to us at the end. But we weren't the same team. Who's to say we'd have Reggie Willits [replacing Anderson in the third inning] batting behind Guerrero [in the cleanup spot] in Game 3 of the playoffs?"

"There are a lot of reasons why you win and don't win," Figgins said. "Obviously, Junior [Matthews] went down first, then Garret's eye. Kotch got sick, Vladdy was hurting. We're not the only team to go through that, but it we didn't have our guys on the field.

"Boston just beat us. Those two guys [Ortiz and Ramirez] are dangerous. I don't know how they felt, but their guys looked a little healthier on the field."

At least the Angels go into this early-season series thinking it's a fair fight.


Pitching matchup
LAA: RHP Jered Weaver (1-3, 3.60 ERA)
Weaver was his own worst enemy against the Royals, his fielding error on a throw at first base costing him an unearned run after he'd yielded two runs on five hits in the first inning. He settled down to hang up four zeros, but the damage had been done. Weaver has only four strikeouts in his past 11 2/3 innings, two subpar efforts following two good ones. He's 0-1 in two career starts at Fenway Park with a 7.36 ERA, and is 0-2 overall against the Red Sox in four outings with a 4.70 ERA.

BOS: RHP David Pauley (no record)
Pauley was summoned from Triple-A Pawtucket three hours before game time after scheduled starter Josh Beckett was scratched due to a stiff neck. Pauley, 23, made three starts for Boston last season and allowed 14 runs on 31 hits in 16 innings. He is 1-1 with a 1.17 ERA in three starts this season for Pawtucket.

Tidbits
The Angels were 4-6 against the Red Sox in the 2007 regular season, going 2-5 at Fenway. Joe Saunders, who works the final game of the series on Thursday, won both his starts against Boston with a 3.46 ERA.

Tickets
 Buy tickets now to catch the game in person.

On the Internet
 MLB.TV
 Gameday Audio
&#149;  Gameday
&#149;  Official game notes

On television
&#149; KCOP

On radio
&#149; KLAA 830, KWKW 1330 (Espa&ntilde;ol)


Up next
&#149; Wednesday: Angels (Jon Garland, 2-2, 4.81) at Red Sox (Daisuke Matsuzaka, 4-0, 3.14), 4:05 p.m. PT 
&#149; Thursday: Angels (Joe Saunders, 3-0, 2.15) at Red Sox (Jon Lester, 1-2, 5.06), 10:35 a.m. PT 
&#149; Friday: Angels (Ervin Santana, 3-0, 2.67) at Tigers (TBD), 4:05 p.m. PT 






