
ANAHEIM -- Jarrod Washburn continued to be haunted by a ballpark that by all designs he should find welcoming.

The left-hander allowed three runs over seven innings, a quality start by the standard measure. But in the fickle nature that is luck and fortune, Washburn drew A's right-hander Rich Harden, who proceeded to shut out the Angels over 8 2/3 innings in a 3-1 victory on Tuesday night, and Washburn saw his mark at home fall this season to 1-4.

He's 5-1 on the road this year.

"I thought I threw the ball well enough tonight, but it wasn't enough," Washburn said of an outing that also saw him walk four and strike out five. "Most nights that is enough to win with our team, but we ran into Harden."

Jason Kendall's sac fly in the third, a two-out RBI single by Jay Payton in the fifth and Dan Johnson's homer in the seventh were all the A's needed, as they squared the series at a game apiece. The two teams will meet Wednesday in the rubber game with the winner also taking the lead in the season series, five games to four.

"Looking at the series so far, there's no doubt that runs are at a premium," A's manager Ken Macha said. "Both teams are pitching well and playing great defense."

Washburn turned in possibly his gutsiest performance last week, in more ways than one, when he held the Twins at the Metrodome to a pair of runs over 5 2/3 innings to pick up the win. In that game, Washburn battled a stomach virus and threw up five times before finally giving way to the bullpen.

He allowed four runs in the outing before that, as the Mariners hammered him for nine hits and walked twice as Washburn took the loss at home.

And now, counting Tuesday's decision, Washburn's career record at Angel Stadium is 27-31 with a 4.73 ERA. Compare that to a 46-23 career record on the road with a 3.35 ERA -- a 27-game swing and nearly a run and a half difference.

"It's hard to count tonight because Harden pitched so well, but it's something we've tried to figure out," manager Mike Scioscia said. "There is lot of difference in what he does at home and what he does on the road. Nothing has really popped; he just pitches well on the road. This is a good park for lefties."

Harden (7-4) controlled the tempo Tuesday by mixing his mid 90s fastball and low 80s changeup with a slider and split-finger. The right-hander retired 16 batters in a row at one point, stranding a pair of one-out walks in the third and running his string into the eighth inning before Chone Figgins worked a two-out walk.

Steve Finley had two of the Angels four hits off Harden. The center fielder doubled to lead off the second and singled and scored the Angels' lone run on Bengie Molina's RBI single in the ninth, as the club staged a modest, yet ultimately unsuccessful two-out rally.

Adam Kennedy singled to lead off the third, the last hit by the Angels until the ninth.

"We really didn't do much against him," said Darin Erstad, who reached base on an error in the first and walked in the third. "We had a couple of opportunities early and didn't do anything."

Harden and Washburn both earned a no-decision April 16 in a game the A's won on a throwing error by Angels reliever Scot Shields in the bottom of the 10th innning. Erstad said Harden has sharpened his delivery since then.

"He's not doing anything different," Erstad said. "He still has the great stuff, but he has command of it. You can have great stuff, but it is command that gets people out. He's obviously got a great future."

Washburn (6-5) feels that Harden is a better pitcher than any of the Big Three that once included right-hander Tim Hudson and left-hander Mark Mulder, but now only boasts Wednesday's starter, Barry Zito.

But Washburn would rather talk about a win than the opposing pitcher, and certainly one at home, where his struggles seem to be more coincidental than cosmic.

"I've pitched well at home this season," Washburn said. "My worst game was at home; otherwise I've pitched OK here. But I continue to not win at home."






