
The Angels are heavily represented on the provisional 45-man rosters of the World Baseball Classic teams, announced on Monday by Major League Baseball.

Fifteen members of the Angels' organization appear on a total of nine of the 16 rosters, including three players each on Team USA and Venezuela and two on the Dominican Republic's list of available performers.

John Lackey, one of the names on the original U.S. roster, was replaced by fellow Angels starter Joe Saunders. Saunders will join fellow Angels Scot Shields and Brian Fuentes on a deep pitching staff manager Davey Johnson will have to select from for the Classic, which kicks off on March 5 and wraps up on March 23 with the championship game at Dodger Stadium.

MLB Network will televise 16 World Baseball Classic games, along with a nightly studio show dedicated to the tournament. ESPN will televise 23 games of the Classic in the U.S., including the semifinal and final games, across ESPN and ESPN2 and on its Spanish-language platform, ESPN Deportes.

The final rosters of 28 players -- including a mandatory 13 pitchers -- must be set by Feb. 24. Tickets can be purchased online through MLB.com.

The first round opens March 5 in Tokyo, with 2006 champion Japan facing China. Mexico City, Toronto and San Juan, Puerto Rico, host the other three first-round brackets, as follows:

&#149; Tokyo (March 5-9): Japan, China, Chinese Taipei and Korea

&#149; Toronto (March 7-11): USA, Canada, Venezuela and Italy

&#149; San Juan, PR (March 7-11): Puerto Rico, Dominican Republic, Netherlands, Panama

&#149; Mexico City (March 8-12): Mexico, Cuba, South Africa, Australia

It's a double-elimination format this time in the first two rounds. The winners from Toronto will meet the winners from Puerto Rico in the second round at Miami's Dolphin Stadium, while the winners from Tokyo will meet with the winners from Mexico City in San Diego's PETCO Park.

The semifinals and finals are on March 21 and 23 at Dodger Stadium.

"Playing in the Classic was one of the greatest thrills of my career," said Shields, the Angels' durable setup man, referring to the inaugural Classic in 2006. "I remember looking around the [clubhouse] at all those great players and thinking, `Man, what am I doing in here?' It was amazing to see all those guys, and then to go out and play with them.

"I'd love to have that experience of representing my country again. The only thing we'd like to do different this time is win it."



ul.pool {margin:5px 0;padding:0;list-style-type:none;width:100px;float:left;}
ul.pool li {font-size:11px;}
ul.pool li.poolname {font-weight:bold;}

2009 Rosters

&bull; All Players | By MLB Club

Pool A
&bull; China
&bull; Chinese Taipei
&bull; Japan
&bull; Korea


Pool B
&bull; Australia
&bull; Cuba
&bull; Mexico
&bull; South Africa


Pool C
&bull; Canada
&bull; Italy
&bull; USA
&bull; Venezuela


Pool D
&bull; Dominican Republic
&bull; Netherlands
&bull; Panama
&bull; Puerto Rico


&bull; Schedule, TV info &raquo;


Japan claimed the inaugural Classic, defeating Cuba in the championship game at PETCO Park.

Fuentes, signed as a free agent with closer Francisco Rodriguez leaving to join the Mets, also has fond memories of the 2006 event.

"I'm thrilled to be representing my country," he said. "It's going to be an incredible experience, and I'm looking forward to it. We'll score runs, but we also need a well-rounded pitching staff. The bullpen will need to come through. It's going to be important."

There a number of intriguing matchups involving Angels players, starting with the first round in Toronto.

Adding muscle to Italy's potential lineup is catcher Mike Napoli. He will be joined by pitcher Kasey Olenberger, who has had three solid seasons at Triple-A Salt Lake. Napoli could face Saunders or Shields, teammates and friends.

Mike Piazza, who starred for the Dodgers, Mets, Padres and A's in his legendary career, could have some tips for Napoli, who has Piazza  power, in his role as Italy's hitting coach.

Other possible Classic confrontations for Saunders in Toronto loom with Venezuela in the same bracket.

Candidates for Venezuela's lineup include outfielder Juan Rivera and infielder Maicer Izturis. Izturis played winter ball after recovering from thumb surgery. Kelvim Escobar, rehabbing after shoulder surgery, is on Venezuela's provisional roster but is not expected to be ready to pitch in game conditions until midseason.

Powerhouse Dominican Republic will be graced by two Angels power arms -- starter Ervin Santana, like Saunders a 2008 American League All-Star, and reliever Jose Arredondo, who burst on the scene with a brilliant rookie season. Angels first-base and infield coach Alfredo Griffin will handle those roles for the Dominican Republic.

Santana and Arredondo could face Angels teammates in Puerto Rico, in the first round, or in Miami during second-round competition.

Making return appearances in the Classic are Angels reliever Rich Thompson, for his native Australia, and shortstop Hainley Statia, for the Netherlands.

Infielder Freddy Sandoval, whose sensational season at Salt Lake was rewarded with a September callup by the Angels, will represent Mexico. Minor League infielders Kevin Ramos (Panama) and Luis Figueroa (Puerto Rico) round out the Angels' representation on Classic rosters.






