
MILWAUKEE -- Chone Figgins is feeling liberated after having the splint removed protecting his right index and middle fingers, injured during Spring Training while he was attempting to field a ground ball at third base.

"I couldn't do simple stuff," Figgins said, "like grabbing things with my right hand. Now I can do it. Being able to squeeze my hand is a big plus."


The projection was for Figgins to miss five or six weeks. He could be back by May 1 if all continues to go well in the recovery process, according to manager Mike Scioscia. Maicer Izturis has excelled in Figgins' absence, batting .364 and playing solid defense at third.


"He's doing range of motion [exercises]," Scisocia said of Figgins. "He's probably not going to pick up a baseball for five to seven days, just to make sure it gets a chance to heal a little further down the road. There's no heightened risk once it heals. Hopefully, he's not that far away where he can get in the lineup -- hopefully, by May 1."


Figgins deferred to the medical staff's judgment when asked when he thinks he'll be back in the lineup. "I just know I'm close," he said.


He's been running and taking ground balls -- keeping the right hand behind his back -- and Figgins said he has been cleared to take "dry swings" to get a feel for the bat's contact with his hand again.


"Throwing and the hitting of the bat against the hand are going to be a test," Figgins said. "And bunting from the right side is going to be a big issue. I use those fingers to control the bat. You try to deaden the ball off the end of the bat, and it vibrates."

 Feeling super, man:  Vladimir Guerrero was wearing a blue Superman T-shirt beneath his Angels uniform for their first of three games against the Indians on Tuesday night at Miller Park, a rare neutral site attraction forced by wintry conditions in Cleveland.


A fan of the Superman movies, Guerrero is much too modest to suggest it's fitting attire for a .325 career hitter with 341 home runs -- and an American League Player of the Week. That's what he was for the season's opening week, sharing the award with the Yankees' Alex Rodriguez.


"I think it's the sixth time," Guerrero said in Spanish, asked how many of these awards he's won. He batted .440 with a slugging percentage of .880 on 22 total bases as the Angels went 5-2 against Texas and Oakland, hitting three homers and delivering 10 RBIs.


Guerrero is no stranger to Miller Park, having played in Brett Favre's state as Montreal's right fielder. Vlad came into his assignment against Indians ace C.C. Sabathia hitting .364 in Milwaukee with four homers -- all solo shots -- in 33 at-bats.


"I like it here," Guerrero said, grinning.


Orlando Cabrera, Guerrero's teammate in Montreal, also has flourished at Miller Park with a .314 average and two homers and eight RBIs in 35 at-bats.

"Great place to hit," Cabrera said. "I always hit a home run here. Vladdy, too."


Guerrero hits them everywhere. He has played in 37 Major League parks, and only in the Houston Astrodome -- where he had 29 at-bats, and in Cincinnati's Great American Ball Park -- where he has had nine at-bats, has Vlad not gone into his home-run trot.

 Scioscia sees no advantage: The Angels had a memorable three-game series in Miller Park in 2002 on their way to the World Series title, clubbing the Brewers three times with the machine-like precision they showed in the postseason. Garret Anderson drove in six runs in the three games on three hits, batting .273.

The Indians, conversely, are 0-3 in the park that became their designated home field, having been swept in Milwaukee last season by the Brew Crew.

"When we're in our game and they're in their game, the field, surface ... I don't think that's an issue," Scioscia said. "When they get in their game, they're going to be tough to beat wherever it is.
"Needless to say, it's unusual. Extreme things have been taking place this last week. Cleveland needs to play some baseball."

 Hillenbrand returns:  Shea Hillenbrand's strained groin felt good enough for him to take the No. 5 spot in the order as the Angels' DH. He was playing his second game when he experienced tightness in the groin running the bases.

"You're never 100 percent," Hillenbrand said, grinning, "but I feel good enough. It was tough having to watch. I was running 85 percent earlier and didn't feel anything. I like hitting here, playing here. It's a lot better than Cleveland [and playing in the cold]."

Jered Weaver, who makes his second start for Class A Rancho Cucamonga on Wednesday night, is on target for a start Monday in Boston if he comes out of the latest test of his biceps tendinitis without problems. Bartolo Colon makes his second start Tuesday night for Rancho Cucamonga, with a 75-pitch limit.

 Up next:  Southpaw Joe Saunders (0-0, 4.76 ERA) gets the call for the Angels against Indians right-hander Jake Westbrook (0-0, 12.60) on Wednesday night at 4:05 p.m. PT.






