
ANAHEIM -- Though the Angels were able to hold on and defeat the Seattle Mariners, 8-6, before a crowd of 39,288 at Angel Stadium on Wednesday night, starter Jered Weaver didn't get the win.  In fact, he didn't even get out of the fifth inning, looking shaky for the second consecutive game.

Weaver started the game by getting the first two batters out, but then walked Raul Ibanez and put him on second with a wild pitch, where he was able to come around and score on Jose Guillen's shallow single, giving the Mariners a 1-0 lead.

"I think my command just wasn't there," Weaver said.

In the bottom of the inning the Angels bats exploded for four runs off of Seattle's young flamethrower, Felix Hernandez.  The big blows coming off the bats of Gary Matthews Jr. and Casey Kotchman, who went deep back-to-back, with Matthews' blast accounting for three runs.  Usually, giving Weaver four runs is like putting money in the bank, but that was not to be.

"Obviously anytime you get a four-spot off of a guy like that, you want to capitalize off of it," said Weaver, annoyed at not getting the job done, but happy that the team won.

Kenji Johjima and Adrian Beltre started off the second with singles, quickly putting Weaver in a hole, but he was able to get the next three batters out.  When he retired the next three batters in the third it looked as if Weaver was going to pitch one of his regular games.

In 27 pervious Major League starts, Weaver was 15-5 with an ERA of 2.86, and only once this season had he surrendered more than three earned runs.

"Every pitcher, no matter how good they are, is going to struggle at times," said manager Mike Scioscia.

With Hernandez also putting up two scoreless innings, it looked as if the two future stars were in complete command.

However, when Weaver went to the mound to start the fourth, the wheels began to come off.  Ben Broussard led off with a walk, followed by another Johjima single and a walk to Yuniesky Betancourt to load the bases.  Singles by Jose Lopez and Ichiro Suzuki made the score 4-3 before Weaver could retire the side.

"He really wasn't getting through his pitches the way he usually does, and I think it affected his command a little," said Scioscia.

After Hernandez retired the Angels in order in the fourth, Weaver returned to mound, but didn't fare much better as Broussard hit a two-out double. And after Weaver finally got Johjima out, Beltre doubled home Broussard and scored himself on a single by Betancourt, ending Weaver's night.

"I just couldn't make my pitches," Weaver said.

The nine hits were the most he has allowed in a game this season and the 4 2/3 innings constituted his second shortest outing.

"I was struggling with my fastball command,  but my offspeed felt great," Weaver said.

And while the outcome was not one of his better efforts, he didn't think he was as bad as the scoreboard indicated.

"I put a couple of balls over the plate," he said, adding that "there were a few seeing-eye ground balls, which is unusual for me because I'm not a ground-ball pitcher, and then a few bloopers there at the end."

Not the type of outing that Angel fans have become expecting to see from Weaver, and definitely not the marquee matchup that the game had been billed as, as Hernandez also had a tough night.

Behind 5-4, Vladimir Guerrero put the Angels back on top in the bottom of the inning with a three-run homer.  From that point, behind another strong effort by the bullpen, the Angels held on for the victory.

"Everyone kind of built it up," said Weaver of his matchup with Hernandez. "But both clubs came out swinging and obviously both of us didn't go as deep as we would have wanted to."






