
ANAHEIM -- Jered Weaver won his fourth straight game and he is about to be handed a one-way ticket to the Minors.

The right-hander has allowed a grand total of four earned runs in 26 1/3 innings but there soon will be no room for him on the big-league roster.

A first-round draft choice in 2004, Weaver has pitched better than any other starter in the Angels rotation this season, but the next time he takes the hill, he'll be representing the Triple-A Bees.

Because unless the Angels make an about-face, it will be Weaver that gets bumped out of the rotation when Bartolo Colon returns from the disabled list, which should occur some time this weekend.

"It is not my decision," Weaver said. "Whatever happens, happens."

Weaver matched Bo Belinsky to become only the second pitcher in franchise history to win his first four starts when he allowed an unearned run as the Angels upended the Royals, 4-1, on Tuesday night.

Orlando Cabrera singled twice, scored a run and drove in another to extend his streak of reaching base safely to 43 games as the Angels beat the Royals for the eighth straight time. Francisco Rodriguez earned his 15th save and second in as many nights.

It has been nothing shy of remarkable for Weaver, who took hold of his turn in the rotation and essentially became the staff ace.

"We saw it in Spring Training in San Francisco," manager Mike Scioscia said. "He just keeps on dealing and it is great to see."

Hector Carrasco was the first man up to take the spot of Colon but three starts resulted in an 0-2 mark and a 5.79 ERA. The Angels then turned to Kevin Gregg and the right-hander fared better but still managed just a 1-1 record with a 6.90 ERA in his three starts.

A number of moves for the Angels this season have been made out of desperation but they were largely initiated to boost a sagging offense. Weaver had been called up to add depth to a staff that had boasted one of the top rotations in the American League last season and he was being asked to replace the reigning Cy Young winner.

Weaver had made a case this season in the Minors with a 4-1 mark and 1.89 ERA that included a 27 1/3 scoreless inning streak, tying Gregg for a Triple-A Salt Lake franchise record that has since been broken by Joe Saunders.

The rookie then simply continued the string after his May 26 callup. Weaver blanked the Orioles on three hits in his first big-league start to pick up the win and proceeded to hold the Indians scoreless over six innings to open his second Major League outing and first on the road.

Weaver would allow two runs on four hits to pick up the win at Cleveland and followed that with a two-run, four-hit performance to earn the victory over the Devil Rays in his third start.

Against the Royals, Weaver allowed a season-high five hits but demonstrated his trademark control by walking just one batter and striking out five. In four starts for the Angels, Weaver issued a total of four walks but rung up 22 strikeouts, all while holding opponents to a .170 batting average.

"He had four good starts and he basically had the same good stuff," said Mike Napoli, who was behind the plate for each of Weaver's starts. "He located the ball and was getting ahead of hitters."

Weaver also showed a tendency to induce a healthy share of fly ball outs, matching the 13 he got in his last start with another baker's dozen on Tuesday. He also had three groundball outs.

"His command is awesome. He is someone that has command of all of his pitches and he can go to any pitch and any time," Napoli said. "That makes is easy on me to call."

Colon will certainly take one rotation spot while Kelvim Escobar, John Lackey and Ervin Santana are in no danger of losing theirs. Jered's older brother Jeff is 3-9 and struggled early but has pitched well in his last five starts and appears steady in his slot.

"It is a tough decision and that is a decision that we're going to make this week," Scioscia said. "I'm not going to call it a dilemma. Five guys are throwing the ball well and we have the Cy Young coming back. We're going to look at some things but we're going to do what is best for the team. [The rotation] is a point of strength for us right now."

The Weavers have a natural sibling rivalry but Jered dismissed the notion that his older brother would be sent to the bullpen to keep him in the rotation.

"We're not going to discriminate against anyone and worry about brotherly love but he's been throwing the ball well and I'd be surprised if that was the case," Jered Weaver said.

The Angels' spotty defense surfaced in the top of the fourth with Weaver in the very middle of it and it cost the club a run. Doug Mientkiewicz hit a shallow bouncer to the right side that appeared to be a routine exercise straight out of Spring Training.

But Weaver did not get a glove on it, and despite heading to the first base bag to cover, he never turned around and Kendry Morales' underhand feed flew past Weaver and into the Royals' dugout for an error as Mientkiewicz scored.

"I'll make that play nine times out of 10," Weaver said. "It was frustrating. It made me look bad and it made Kendry look bad."

Vladimir Guerrero put the Angels on the board in the bottom of the first when his RBI double scored Cabrera. Napoli then scored in the fourth on Darin Erstad's RBI groundout. An RBI single by Chone Figgins and an RBI groundout by Cabrera gave the Angels a 4-1 lead.











