
SEATTLE -- Fausto Carmona's rehabilitation attempt appears to be coming to a successful close, which is a relief for an Indians team that continues to suffer from gaping holes due to various injuries.

Carmona, the promising right-hander who went on the disabled list May 24 with a left hip strain, threw a successful rehabilitation outing for the Double-A Akron Aeros on Saturday. In five innings of work, he gave up one run on nine hits while striking out two hitters and walking none. He induced three double-play grounders from the opposing Erie SeaWolves. 

He threw 66 pitches, 47 for strikes, before using the bullpen mound for additional pitches after the start. The run came on three straight two-out singles in the fifth inning. 

"He was good yesterday. He felt good," Indians manager Eric Wedge said. "He's actually going to come into Anaheim tonight, and we're going to get our eyes on him tomorrow and go from there." 

Carmona will probably throw a side session Monday in Anaheim, and the Indians will evaluate him afterward as they look to put him back in the rotation. 

"Obviously, we want to get him back here as soon as we can," Wedge said. "So if he's fine, I'm sure that's probably the direction we're going." 

Wedge declined to give a specific timetable, but the gist of his answers suggested the return should be coming soon. Carmona will be returning straight into the rotation, which could make the Indians juggle their normal pitching order. 

"We were working on that this morning, because we've got the off-day Thursday," Wedge said. "We haven't made any firm decisions, I think we'll just have to wait and see how Fausto feels tomorrow." 

Carmona's rehabilitation attempt with a simulated session didn't turn out well several weeks ago, when he felt soreness in the hip and had to shut everything down. But if the injured area is now fully healed, the Indians will be happy to add his live arm back into the rotation. In 10 starts this season, Carmona has a 4-2 record with a 3.10 ERA. Last season, he went 19-8 with a 3.06 ERA while giving the Indians 215 innings and two complete games. 

"As long as he's fine physically -- there's nothing going on there -- that's what we're most concerned about," Wedge said.







