
ANAHEIM -- It may be early for concern, but Bartolo Colon is not himself.

Two starts into the season, Colon has yet to show the form that garnered Cy Young Award honors a year ago and he's looked less than ordinary in the process.

Colon was unhittable for three innings on Opening Day before treating the Mariners to fastballs over the plate and up in the zone. The damage was minimal as the offense weathered the three runs he allowed to carve out a victory.

The collapse was far greater on Sunday afternoon, though, as the Yankees jumped on Colon with a fistful of runs in the second inning and rode the onslaught to hand the Angels a 10-1 loss in front of a sellout crowd, the third consecutive in the home-opening series for an Angel Stadium three-game record of 132,192.

It was only the Angels' third loss to the Yankees in the last 10 home games, including the postseason.

"It seemed like I'm the one that woke them up a little bit," Colon said through an interpreter.

The Yankees had scored just three runs in the first two games of the series as the Angels ran their record against them to 51-48 in the Joe Torre era. The Angels are the only team in the Majors with a winning mark over the Yankees since the beginning of the 1996 season.

But on Sunday, which also happened to be the 40th anniversary of the Angels' first game at Angel Stadium, Colon never found a rhythm.

Colon's first inning was solid, a 1-2-3 frame, but Alex Rodriguez upset his balance leading off the second by drilling a 1-0 pitch to dead center for his second home run of the season and the 431st of his career, tying him with Cal Ripken Jr. for 37th place on the all-time list.

That Rodriguez got to Colon is no mystery. Last season, Rodriguez had three homers off Colon and drove in 10 runs in one game and is hitting .455 against him in his career.

"I always walk up to the plate with confidence, but you don't want to get caught up in it and get too cocky," Rodriguez said. "Against a guy like that who has a Cy Young, he can stick it right up you-know-where. You have to stay focused and attack."

The bigger question is why Colon is struggling with the command of his fastball.

Jason Giambi followed Rodriguez with a single. On potential double-play ball, Colon mishandled a dribbler in front of the mound off the bat of Hideki Matsui and then pulled Casey Kotchman off the bag at first for an error. Jorge Posada then stepped up and hammered a 1-2 pitch to right for a three-run homer.

Robinson Cano singled and eventually came in on Derek Jeter's RBI double as the Yankees scored five runs and batted around in the second inning.

"I think he was right early like he was in Seattle. He was right early, but the ability to carry that over and repeat pitches, he has had trouble with," manager Mike Scioscia said. "He is overthrowing a bit."

Colon suffered a strain to his right shoulder last October in Game 5 of the American League Division Series against the Yankees. He rehabbed during the offseason and reported to Spring Training healthy. He pitched well in camp and for the Dominican Republic in the World Baseball Classic.

Against Cuba in one semifinal, Colon tossed six scoreless innings. He suffered a slight groin strain in his start last Monday in Seattle, but said neither condition affected him Sunday against the Yankees.

"I really can't pinpoint it; I am going to sit down and watch video," Colon said. "Body-wise and mechanics, I think I'm doing OK. My rhythm is off and sometimes I feel I'm gripping the ball too hard, and that is why the ball gets up and the breaking ball isn't sharp."

Colon (0-1) ran his ERA to 12.86 and he's allowed 15 hits in seven-plus innings this season.

"He is about command as much as he is about velocity," Scioscia said. "If you had one you had to do without, it would be velocity. But right now he's having trouble with his command."

Colon walked Giambi and gave up a single to Matsui to open the third. When Posada drove in Giambi with a double, Colon's day was done and he gave way to Esteban Yan, who promptly allowed a two-run double to Cano.

The Angels' lone run came in the third when Jeff Mathis and Adam Kennedy both singled and Chone Figgins followed with a single to left to score Mathis. Yankees starter Mike Mussina (1-0) was solid through six innings.

"He keeps getting finer and finer with his stuff," Scioscia said of Mussina. "He doesn't throw as hard as he used to, but he hits his spots. He knows how to pitch."






