
ST. PETERSBURG -- Catcher Josh Paul etched his name into Angels' lore for one pivotal play last October.

In Game 2 of the American League Championship Series against the White Sox, Angels reliever Kelvim Escobar threw a hard-breaking split-finger fastball that Paul believed he caught cleanly for the third strike and third out of the ninth inning. Paul then rolled the ball back to the mound and ran to the dugout, expecting to play extra innings to break a 1-1 tie.

Home-plate umpire Doug Eddings made what appeared to be an out call, but as he would explain later, he was merely making his "strike three mechanic" and had never actually called the batter out. Recognizing and taking advantage of the situation was A.J. Pierzynski, who initially paused in the batter's box before sprinting to first.

Pablo Ozuna entered the game as a pinch-runner and eventually scored the winning run on Joe Crede's double, and the White Sox went on to the pennant and a World Series title.

While television replays were never conclusive that Paul made a clean catch or not, he's maintained that he did and has a defender in his new manager Joe Maddon.

"He did absolutely nothing wrong," said Maddon, who was initially signed as a catcher by the Angels and was in the dugout Oct. 12 when it happened. "He caught the ball and did what every catcher does in that situation when he catches the ball. He rolled it to the mound and ran to the dugout."

Paul chose not to elaborate Monday afternoon, saying he was "done talking about it," and added that he's moved on.

"I'm not going to let it define my career," said Paul, who is batting .302 in 21 games for the Devil Rays. "My career isn't over yet."

Welcome mat: When Maddon got his first peak at the 2006 schedule as manager of the Devil Rays, he circled June 5-7, when he would face the Angels for the first time in an opposing uniform, and he was quietly glad he would get the first opportunity in his home park. The Rays will visit Anaheim, July 14-16.

Maddon, who spent 31 years in the Angels organization, with the last 10 as the bench coach of the big club, said he prepared for whatever feelings he might encounter Monday and sought out some players before early batting practice.

"I am emotional by nature and I didn't want to hide that, so I wanted to get that out of the way," Maddon said. "Walking into the building today was a little bit different. I was eager; it was exciting."

The first player he saw was Tim Salmon, whom Maddon helped sign when he was a scout.

"I'm glad [Salmon] made this comeback. I know it was important to him and I'm happy for him," Maddon said.

Got work?  Francisco Rodriguez has converted 13 of 14 save opportunities this season and is tied for fifth in the category with B.J. Ryan. But getting the chances has been iffy for Rodriguez.

Entering Monday, he last recorded a save on May 30, while only five of his last 11 appearances were in save situations. In April, Rodriguez had a save opportunity in nine of 11 appearances.

Rodriguez entered Sunday's game in Cleveland with a 14-0 lead simply to get work and allowed two solo homers.

"His velocity was good but his command was a little off but he needed to pitch," Manager Mike Scioscia said. "He needs enough rest but he also needs to pitch to keep his edge."

Scioscia would like Rodriguez to get more save opportunities for the simple reason that it would mean his team is playing better, but he remains confident in his bullpen ace.

"His stuff looks great, but the bottom line for any closer is getting the job done," Scioscia said. "I think Frankie has proved that when it is on the line he can get it done."

Chess match: With Maddon in the opposing dugout, familiarity could play a factor in the series between the Angels and Devil Rays. Scioscia said understanding another manager's style is helpful.

"You look at tendencies that a manager will have on the offensive side and tendencies that he will have on the defensive side," Scioscia said. "The one thing that both clubs match up well in is they both run. [The Devil Rays are] a track team over there, not just stealing bases but going first to third."

The Angels entered Monday's game ranking first in the American League in stolen bases while the Devil Rays were second. Chone Figgins was second among individual players while Rays outfielders Carl Crawford and Joey Gathright were fourth and seventh, respectively.

Asides: Garret Anderson started at designated hitter Monday to lessen the impact of the artificial turf at Tropicana Field. ... Orlando Cabrera sported a pair of "Joe Maddon" replica eyeglasses during stretching Monday. The glasses that feature classic black frames were giveaway items to Rays fans earlier this season. During the national anthem, the Angels lined up at the dugout rail wearing the eyeglasses in tribute.

On deck: The Angels will play the second game of a three-game series against the Devil Rays at 4:15 p.m. PT on Tuesday. Right-hander Ervin Santana will face Tampa Bay left-hander Scott Kazmir. Right-hander Jered Weaver will start against the Devil Rays on Wednesday.






