
OAKLAND -- It may not match Dodgers-Giants, but the Angels and the A's have been building a rivalry in recent years.

The A's have been the team to beat in the American League West since the 2000 season, while the Angels have made some noise of their own with a World Series title in 2002 and a division crown last year.

Manager Mike Scioscia, who experienced the heat of the rivalry between the Dodgers and the Giants during his days as catcher for the Dodgers, acknowledges that that sort of history and bad blood between the A's and Angels is not there, but their recent bouts atop the AL West have made it interesting.

"There is a rivalry because there is a tremendous amount of respect for what they've done," Scioscia said of the A's. "They've been the class of the division. There is on-field respect that both teams have for one another."

After leading the division by 8 1/2 games on July 6, the Angels have been caught by the A's, but are not applying any extra emphasis on the three-game series that opened here Tuesday.

"I'll approach it like any other series," Darin Erstad said. "We want to play well. If we play well, we'll be there in the end. At the same time, you don't want to try and do something you're not capable of doing. They're obviously a very good team."

Mended: Erstad was back at first base and batting third on Tuesday after missing three games with a strained right hip. Erstad sustained the injury when he fielded a popup on the third-base side of the mound Thursday, stumbling slightly before catching the ball.

Erstad said it felt like someone was stabbing the front of his hip near his groin with a spear. While he didn't want to take the time off, he felt it had some benefits.

"You're always trying to find positives in situations like this, and [extra rest] is one," Erstad said of breaking up the grind of the season.

Erstad drove in a run on a fielding error by Mark Ellis in his first at-bat Tuesday, and singled and scored on Vladimir Guerrero's grand slam in his second appearance.

Back on board: Steve Finley returned to the lineup Tuesday, starting in center field and batting eighth. The 40-year-old was benched in the weekend series in Anaheim with the Tampa Bay Devil Rays to work out some kinks in his swing.

Scioscia said that Finley worked with hitting coach Mickey Hatcher and concentrated mostly on hitting inside the ball and staying inside the pitch.

"Fin's bat speed is there and his swing is there. He has to start squaring up the baseball, and hopefully he'll do that on a regular basis," Scioscia said.

Finley entered Tuesday in a 5-for-31 skid with just one home run in his last 36 games, but the Angels could use another productive bat and hope that Finley can fill some holes.

"We have a lot of confidence in Fin. We're going to have to find some offensive chemistry," Scioscia said. "We have some options if it doesn't happen to be Fin, but he has some chances to open some things up."

Getting close: Jarrod Washburn stepped up his bullpen session a day when he took the hill in the visitor's bullpen on Tuesday afternoon. The left-hander said that everything went fine, and felt that the decision to go on the disabled list was the right decision.

"It was good to take that extra week," Washburn said, adding that he will start Friday or Saturday in Seattle, depending on where the Angels decide to fit him in.

Making strides: Kelvim Escobar also threw a bullpen session on Tuesday, his second since undergoing surgery June 29 to shave a bone spur and remove a bone chip from his right elbow.

Projected to return in early September, Escobar feels he's on schedule or running a little ahead.

"I feel like I'm getting close," Escobar said. "I'm just doing what they tell me. I feel fine. I'm not worried about the bone spur. I'm just working my way back."

Escobar played catch with Francisco Rodriguez in the Angel Stadium outfield last Saturday and threw some breaking pitches. He then did so from the mound for the first time on Tuesday.

"I'm progressing very quick," Escobar said.

In memoriam: A service will be held Sunday in memory of former Angels manager Gene Mauch, who died Monday. In lieu of flowers, the family has requested that donations can be directed to the Eisenhower Medical Center, a non-profit hospital, located at 39000 Bob Hope Drive, Rancho Mirage, CA 92270. Telephone: 760-340-3911.

On deck: The Angels will continue their three-game series with the A's on Wednesday at 7:05 p.m. PT. Right-hander Ervin Santana will face Oakland left-hander Barry Zito.






