
ANAHEIM -- Typically, Angel Stadium of Anaheim is a quiet place in November.

But that wasn't the case Saturday, as nearly 700 children took to the field as part of the second annual Bank of America Orange County Little League Challenger Classic.

The children, most of whom are living with physical and mental disabilities, got to play for a day on the same field as the big leaguers. The kids' day consisted of many of the same routine exercises that the professionals go through, such as standing for the national anthem, hitting, running the bases and mingling with other players, like Angels reliever Justin Speier.

Three different groups of children from 26 Challenger Division Little League teams across Orange County played on their own "Field of Dreams" as part of the event that was created through a partnership between Angels baseball and Bank of America.

Nearly 200 volunteers helped to make the event possible, and the annual day figures to get stronger with each passing year, according to Angels president Dennis Kuhl.

"We really like how the kids and their families are out here supporting this," said Kuhl. "Just to be on the inside of Angel Stadium and on the same field as the Major Leaguers play on is such a thrill for these kids."

Kids like 10-year-old Cade Hudler, whose father, Rex, is a former Major Leaguer and current Angels broadcaster. Cade, who has Down syndrome, is used to watching his father take center stage, but the tables were turned on Saturday as he donned his uniform and took to the field for a day of fun and being in the spotlight.

"When Cade was up there hitting," said Rex, "they had him on the scoreboard and he couldn't take his eyes off of it."

Rex Hudler added that events like these are what the game of baseball is all about.

"The one-on-one time means the world to me," Hudler said. "And to be able to be out on this field with my son and for him to be able to experience the same things that I went through makes me want to go out there and get dirty again.

"Bank of America and the Angels do a great job of understanding that kids are kids, and that they love baseball no matter what type of kids they are."

Speier, the valuable Angels reliever, was like a kid again himself as he hopped around from group to group while pitching to the children and fielding the balls they hit -- with the help of his new teammates, of course.

"It's truly an honor and a blessing for me to see the joy these kids possess," Speier said. "Just to be out here on the field is a great time for them."

Before the children took the field for a day of action, Speier read the Little League pledge and elicited loud cheers from everyone in attendance when he instructed everyone to "Play ball!"

Among those playing Saturday was 10-year-old Sam Nelson, a four-year veteran of the Orange County Little League's Challenger Division. He and his father, Paul, were at the event for a second consecutive year.

Paul assists with coaching in the Orange County Little League and was overjoyed with Saturday's experience at Angel Stadium.

"It means everything to me," said Nelson. "Just seeing the smiles on these kids' faces is heartwarming."

As a group of children took the field, Kim Burdick, Bank of America's Orange County market president, looked on and summed up his feelings on the day's events.

"We believe everyone should have a chance to enjoy America's pastime," said Burdick. "The event was such a hit last year, and it has just increased this year. It's very exciting to see these children have a chance to enjoy the game and to know Bank of America's partnership with the Angels and Little League baseball has something to do with it."

Meanwhile, in the right-field corner of Angel Stadium, little Cade Hudler was running all over the place while trying to get to batted balls, seemingly without a position.

"He's a utility player," said Rex, "just like his Dad."






