
TEMPE, Ariz. -- Angels manager Mike Scioscia has a brand new toy.

A left-handed bullpen hammer whose towering, intimidating presence never is appreciated by left-handed hitters, Brian Fuentes offered a glimpse on Thursday of coming attractions.










Facing lefty-swinging Eric Chavez with two on and one out in the third inning, Fuentes put the Athletics slugger away with a wicked slider. When another southpaw swinger, Jack Cust, flied to left, Fuentes was out of a jam he'd created by yielding a pair of one-out singles.

In his first appearance in an Angels uniform, Fuentes was Fuentes, getting outs in threatening situations.

"It's just the competitor in you," Fuentes said. "It kind of takes over. If we're playing an intrasquad game and two guys get on, you tend to buckle down and get that next guy."

That tenacity is one of the qualities that made Fuentes so desirable when Francisco Rodriguez decided to do his work for the Mets. The new closer will make one more spring appearance before heading to Florida to get ready to pitch for Team USA in the World Baseball Classic along with Scot Shields.

"I don't think it was much different than what we've seen from him in the past," Scioscia said of Fuentes following a 3-1 win over the A's. "Good command. He threw some real good sliders. He was what we'd expect. I think he's ready for the [Classic]. He pitched with a little adrenaline today."

Fuentes showed why Scioscia feels he has a deeper, more balanced bullpen than ever with a power lefty added to the mix with veteran Darren Oliver, the club's lone southpaw reliever the past two seasons.

"I expect to get the ball in the ninth," Fuentes said in the afterglow, making it clear he's here to close, not set up. "I'm not a lefty specialist. You definitely want to know your role, and that's what I'll be comfortable with."

Fuentes is K-Rod's ninth-inning heir, make no mistake. Yet there probably will be times when Scioscia feels compelled to use his lefty -- his new toy -- for an out against a tough left-handed hitter in the eighth, to keep a game under control.

"But I want to go in the ninth, too," if that happens, Fuentes stressed.

Scioscia wouldn't discount the possibility of going to Fuentes to close in the eighth inning, calling it "something we would consider on a given night," but not a game plan, by any means.

It's understandable that Fuentes doesn't want to be tagged with any "lefty specialist" labels. Big (6-foot-4) and durable, with a killer slider to go with a fastball that's difficult to pick up with his unorthodox delivery, Fuentes was a three-time National League All-Star in Colorado for his ability to finish games. He has produced at least 30 saves in three of the past four seasons.

Yet, as good as Oliver has been the past two years, he is just as effective against right-handed hitters as lefties. And he's a guy you want in games for at least an inning. So if Josh Hamilton or Jason Giambi is hitting with runners aboard and two outs in the eighth, Fuentes might get the call and the ball.

The Angels' bullpen will have a different look this season with what Fuentes provides. Scioscia has identified Fuentes as his closer, but the manager won't hesitate to let Shields or Jose Arredondo finish games if necessary on occasion.






