
ANAHEIM -- Chone Figgins took a seat Wednesday but not out of choice.

Figgins has eight hits in his past 40 at-bats and only one for extra bases. Couple that with a .216 batting average from the right side and Rockies left-hander Jeff Francis on the hill, and it adds up to a day off.

"I don't like to take any days off unless it is scheduled but Mike [Scioscia] is the manager," Figgins said.

Figgins has played mostly third and center this season but has also played second, both corner outfield spots and spent some time at designated hitter. He hit .290 in 642 at-bats last season and hit below .265 in only one month. This year he's already hit .241 in May and is hitting .253 with one game remaining in June.

"It's been frustrating," Figgins said. "I've been walking more this season and seeing more pitches per at-bat, but it seems that every time I hit the ball hard, it is right at somebody."

Figgins speaks to his older brother Demetrius often by phone. Demetrius Figgins is a hitting instructor and often calls with tips, observations or just encouragement.

"He called me today and said: 'Maybe we should go "Major League" and sacrifice a chicken.' He was joking," said Figgins, referring to the movie of the same name and a scene where players try to help a hitter out of a slump. "He mostly was just telling me that I've been having good at-bats but the ball is not finding holes."

Figgins is second on the Angels this season with 52 runs scored and first with 31 walks.

Short leash: Jeff Weaver has not been removed from the Angels rotation, but the indicators are pointing in that direction.

Weaver allowed six runs on nine hits in a loss Tuesday before being lifted in the third inning after giving up four straight hits. He remains a likely candidate for the Angels to deal if the opportunity arises, but his value has been reduced after a number of subpar outings this season.

It was the fifth time he's allowed at least five runs and the second time he did not make it out of the third inning. In only three of his starts has Weaver allowed as few as five hits (his low), while in five other starts he's allowed eight or more.

"Right now is when we need five guys throwing the ball consistently," Scioscia said. "We've talked about a couple of things, but right now we're not committing to anything different."

Jeff's younger brother, Jered Weaver, is ready to take his spot and the kid is not going away. He went 4-0 with a 1.37 ERA in four starts this season with the Angels only to get sent back to Triple-A, where he's been dealing. On Wednesday afternoon, Jered Weaver allowed a run on six hits over six innings with 11 strikeouts.

In his previous start with Salt Lake, Jered Weaver tossed a two-hit shutout and fanned 14.

"I think the way Jered has pitched up here and pitched at Triple-A, it is something that we will look into at some point," Scioscia said. "It is something that we need to consider as a team and as an organization. We'll see how things pan out."

In the zone: Orlando Cabrera is on a roll. The shortstop batted third in the order Wednesday, the third time in the last four games.

"I don't think you can make any argument outside of Mike Napoli who is the most productive hitter we have and that is Orlando," Scioscia said.

With a walk in the first inning Wednesday, Cabrera has reached base in 56 games by a hit, walk or hit by pitch. While it pales in comparison to Joe DiMaggio's 56-game hitting streak and is still about a month away from equaling Ted Williams' streak of reaching base in 84 games, Cabrera is one of only two bright spots in the lineup for the Angels.



Complete coverage &gt;




Cabrera leads the team with 54 runs scored entering Wednesday's series finale with the Rockies and is hitting .306 in 74 games. He also has a .363 on-base percentage and is hitting .315 with runners in scoring position and .385 with runners in scoring position and two out.

"Orlando is the guy we want to get up there with runners in scoring position. He has been terrific," Scioscia said.

Trainer's room: Garret Anderson was held out of the lineup again Wednesday with a lower back strain. He aggravated it Monday during a rundown and was scratched from Tuesday's game after feeling pain during batting practice.

Anderson also has been slowed by a strain in his left arch and the Angels would like to get him back in the lineup by the weekend when they host the Dodgers. They also would like to avoid the disabled list, Scioscia said, but realize that might be the only option if he doesn't improve.

"For everything to get totally where it needs to be, it will take the offseason," Scioscia said. "If he can't get this together, get his swing where it needs for him to be productive, then maybe we'll have to consider [the DL]."

Anderson, who turns 34 on Friday, remains two hits shy of 2,000 in his career and is 6-for-38 in his last 10 games.

Dallas McPherson, who is on the DL with a lower back strain, stayed behind in Arizona for two extra days for physical therapy and tests, Scioscia said.

On deck: The Angels will be off Thursday and will host the Dodgers in a three-game series beginning Friday at 7:05 p.m. PT. Right-hander Bartolo Colon will face Los Angeles right-hander Brad Penny. Kelvim Escobar will start against the Dodgers on Saturday.






