
Torii Hunter has been heating up at the plate as of late, but as his Angels get closer to October, he'll be looking to get even hotter.

That's why he's looking to have a new song to be playing over the Angel Stadium stereo system when he walks to the plate, and he's getting help from some big names while offering help to people in need.

Hunter has partnered with WeMix.com, the user-generated music creation and record label community for independent artists co-founded by rapper Christopher "Ludacris" Bridges that gives artists around the country the unique opportunity to showcase their musical creativity and make a difference.

It's called the "WeMix Diamond Cut," and it's a nationwide songwriting contest looking for the best original theme song -- and future walk-up tune -- for Hunter.

"As an avid music enthusiast, I'm happy to team with WeMix.com to discover talented new artists and find a song that best reflects me," Hunter says. "I'm also excited about opening new avenues that support my efforts to encourage kids to play the game of baseball."

Bridges, who describes himself as a huge fan of baseball and all sports, agrees.

"I truly support what Torii is doing through his foundation", Bridges says. "This is a fantastic opportunity for WeMix to spread that positive message, excite fans around the country, and make great new music at the same time."

In addition to giving Hunter a new song, the contest also provides new artists and songwriters with the opportunity to make a difference in the community. A portion of the songs' proceeds will go towards the Torii Hunter Project, a national program designed to support youth baseball in inner cities and poor rural communities, regardless of race or ethnicity, with opportunities to learn about the game.

"The number of African-American Major League players has dramatically decreased over the last 10 years," Hunter adds. "We're hoping that projects such as this will reverse that trend and get more minority kids into the game."

Artists interested in submitting an original Torii Hunter theme song to the "WeMix Diamond Cut" contest can visit WeMix.com and find complete contest rules and details there. Finalists will be chosen August 12, 2008.

"The connection between music and sports has never been stronger," says WeMix co-founder Matt Apfel. The 'WeMix Diamond Cut' contest is taking fan participation into a brand-new arena, and we're thrilled to have Torii Hunter as our first athlete on the WeMix roster."








