
BOSTON -- Chone Figgins was seated at his Fenway Park locker on Wednesday talking about the fine art of hitting when manager Mike Scioscia dropped by with word that southpaw Jon Lester would be replacing ailing right-hander Daisuke Matsuzaka on the mound for the Red Sox in a few hours.

"Time to flip over to the other side of my brain," Figgins said, grinning. "Same approach, just the other side of the plate."

The American League's second-leading hitter entering Wednesday night's action, Figgins carried a 13-game hitting streak into action against Lester. That's one shy of his career best, set last season.

Figgins is also enhancing his reputation as one of the game's premier leadoff men. His .469 on-base percentage was the best in the AL through Tuesday.

At 30, in his sixth full season, Figgins is anything but an overnight sensation. He's been working at his craft diligently for years, applying methods and techniques along the way, taking advantage of advice from a wide range of sources, from hitting coaches to teammates, such as Garret Anderson and Nathan Haynes.

"He falls into the category of extremely hard worker, an overachiever," teammate Casey Kotchman said of Figgins. "David Eckstein's like that. Those guys have gotten the most out of their ability through work, work and more work. Nobody's ever drowned in their own sweat, and those guys are good examples of that."

Figgins learned last season while coming back from two fractured fingers on his right hand to trust his approach and not stray from it even while he was struggling.

Haynes, a close friend since they played together in the Angels' farm system, helped guide Figgins through that challenging period when his average was in the low .100s last May.  Figgins' 53 hits in June were a club record for a month, and his .330 average was a career high after he batted .381, best in the Majors, from May 31 to the finish.

"Nate stressed the mental side of it more than anything," Figgins said of Haynes, now with the Rays in Tampa Bay. "Having gone through eight surgeries, he knew all about it. I'd never been through anything like that, so he made me realize that I had to relax, step out of the box, breathe ... not try to do too much."

Hitting coaches Rolando Fernandez and Jim Eppard were big influences on Figgins early in his career with the Rockies. Eppard now tutors Angels hitters as a coach at Triple-A Salt Lake, while Fernandez moved successfully into the Rockies' front office as head of Latin American operations.

In Anaheim, hitting coach Mickey Hatcher took a prominent role in convincing Figgins he could hit with force and be successful despite his 5-foot-8 frame.

"I don't have one of those swings like Ichiro [Suzuki]," Figgins said. "Mickey told me when I came here that I could hit the ball hard. He said, 'You can drive the ball; you're not going to chop balls.' I don't lift balls, but I hit hard line drives.

"Mickey told me I was going to go through periods when I hit a lot of line-drive outs -- that's what happened in 2006. But he said I should stick with my approach, not get frustrated. And that's what I've been doing."






