
ANGELS 11, BREWERS 4  
at Tempe, Ariz. 
Tuesday, March 18

Brewers at the plate: Designated hitter Mike Rivera singled home a run and doubled home another. Veteran left fielder Gabe Kaplan cracked an RBI double in the first inning, and Abraham Nunez singled, walked and scored twice. 

 Angels at the plate: Casey Kotchman unloaded his first Cactus League homer, a three-run drive to right. Vladimir Guerrero launched his second homer of the spring, a two-run monster blast to center, and added a sacrifice fly. Torii Hunter smacked his third spring homer and added a single. Maicer Izturis doubled and singled, and Gary Matthews singled twice, walked and was robbed of extra bases by Tony Gwynn at the wall in center.

 Brewers on the mound: Jeff Suppan sailed through the first two innings before a double, walk, sacrifice fly and Guerrero's blast produced a three-run third. Eric Gagne had a shaky eighth, giving up a walk, three singles and a wild pitch for two runs before leaving two runners stranded. 

 Angels on the mound: Dustin Moseley had a rocky start, giving up two runs on four hits in the first inning, but settled down and pitched effectively in his first Cactus League start, lasting four innings and giving up six hits. Darren Oliver worked two scoreless innings, striking out three while yielding two hits, and Darren O'Day was touched for two runs (one earned) on two hits in two innings. 

 Cactus League records: Brewers 14-7; Angels 12-7. 

 Up next for Angels: Ervin Santana (1-0, 7.90) makes his fifth spring start on Wednesday when the Angels face Rich Harden and the A's in Phoenix. Game time is 12:05 p.m. PT 

Up next for Brewers: The team enjoys its only off-day of the spring Wednesday. The team will return to action on Thursday night in Surprise, Ariz., against the Royals, with left-hander Manny Parra scheduled to start against Kansas City right-hander Brett Tomko. Relievers Seth McClung, Brian Shouse and David Riske are also scheduled to appear for the Brewers, who hope to get left fielder Ryan Braun and shortstop J.J. Hardy back in the lineup.






