
MINNEAPOLIS -- Kelvim Escobar couldn't throw his fastball for a strike in the first inning Saturday, and when he finally did, Justin Morneau made him wish he hadn't. 

Justin Morneau's two-run homer, a 456-foot blast to the upper deck in right field, put the Twins in control and Brad Radke held the Angels' hitters in check as Minnesota cruised to a 4-2 victory.

Escobar (0-1) settled down to pitch seven strong innings, but the damage was done early as the Twins won their fifth straight.

"He started off the game throwing a nice little fastball, but it left him right away and he had trouble spotting it," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said of Escobar, who was making his second start after returning from three weeks on the disabled list. "For not having his best stuff and best command early, he settled down. We just didn't get the pressure we needed offensively."

After Escobar retired Shannon Stewart on an infield fly to start the game, his trouble began. Jason Bartlett walked, but he was picked off by catcher Jose Molina for the second out. 

Escobar had fallen behind Joe Mauer, 2-0, by that time, and he walked on five pitches. Then Escobar delivered two high fastballs to Morneau and pitching coach Bud Black paid him a visit on the mound to see what he was thinking.

"I was thinking it was a fastball count and he's a big boy, so I was trying to keep it down and get a ground ball," Escobar said.

He came back with a two-seam fastball that crossed the plate letter-high, and Morneau crushed it for his second home run of the season and a 2-0 lead for the Twins.

The next time through the order, Morneau came up in another huge situation, and Escobar demonstrated how he had regained control by using his offspeed pitches to throw strikes. With two on and one out and the Twins leading, 3-1, Escobar started feeding Morneau cut fastballs on the inside corner, which he kept pulling foul down the right-field line.

"They were pretty inside," Escobar said. "It's hard to keep that ball fair."

He then polished off Morneau with a split-fingered fastball and got Torii Hunter on a flyout to end the threat.

"I don't know what it was," Escobar said. "Maybe because I felt so good early, I was working too quick with my body and leaving my arm behind. For some reason, my mechanics are so much better with my breaking stuff and I don't try to overthrow the ball. When I try to overthrow my fastball, my mechanics don't survive."

By the time Escobar had figured it out, Radke (2-3) was in command, lowering his career ERA against the Angels to 1.68 by allowing one earned run over 7 1/3 innings. In 97 pitches, he threw 75 strikes, walked nobody and struck out four, retiring 14 of 15 hitters at one point before the Angels knocked him out in the eighth.

"He did what he does best," Scioscia said. "He had terrific control, he changed speeds, and in a couple of spots he made some good pitches with guys on base."

The first inning has been trouble for Radke this year -- opponents are hitting .423 with four home runs in the first -- and Saturday night looked like more of the same as Darin Erstad led off the game with one of his three base hits and Vladimir Guerrero singled an out later.

But that's when Radke went to work. He got Garret Anderson on a fly to right, then struck out Steve Finley. In fact, after Guerrero's single, only three of the next 23 batters reached base, until Jeff DaVanon led off the eighth with a double, and Erstad followed with a solid single to center field. 

Chone Figgins delivered DaVanon with a sacrifice fly to make the score 4-2, and Twins manager Ron Gardenhire went to his bullpen. Right-handed setup man Juan Rincon came in and struck out Guerrero, then got Anderson to ground out to end the threat. Joe Nathan pitched a perfect ninth for his eighth save in nine chances.

But the key to the game was control by the starting pitchers. Radke threw first-pitch strikes to 26 of the 29 batters he faced. By contract, Escobar fell behind, 1-0, on the first four batters of the game and walked four in his seven-inning stint.

"I had to keep fighting and keep fighting to keep us in the ballgame," Escobar said. "It was just one of those games where you have to fight and find a way to get people out."








