
TEMPE, Ariz. -- Throwing from the windup and the stretch, Angels right-hander Kelvim Escobar unleashed 25 pitches Monday morning to three hitters, and his self-review was consistent with all the others of his remarkable springtime recovery from right shoulder surgery.










"I felt good," Escobar said. "I was focusing on staying back on my [right] leg with a good finish using my lower body. I tried to take it easy, not get excited. It did feel a little weird facing hitters for the first time.

"I feel pretty much normal."

Under the watchful gaze of manager Mike Sciosica, pitching coach Mike Butcher and head certified athletic trainer Ned Bergert, Escobar threw fastballs, curveballs and changeups to catcher Mike Napoli. Reggie Willits, Robb Quinlan and Chris Pettit took swings, Willits from the left side. There wasn't a lot of hard contact made.

"Nap said, 'Hey, it's pretty good,'" Escobar said of the receiver who knows his stuff so well. "He said the fastball's coming out good, nice and easy.

"Another step."

The next step will be another batting practice session, scheduled for Thursday, and, if all goes well, a camp game appearance that could come Sunday.

Napoli was enthused about how cleanly the ball came out of Escobar's hand and how it felt making contact with his glove.

"His fastball was good -- heavy, with good rotation," Napoli said. "He threw a couple of good changeups, too. In the bullpen he's been throwing curveballs and splits. He's doing pretty good. It's great to see. He's important to us."

Willits said he saw five fastballs and one changeup from Escobar.

"His velocity's good," Willits said. "His changeup came out with good arm speed, good movement. You can see he keeps getting better and better."

"As I keep throwing," Escobar said, "my strength is going to be back. I feel my stuff is going to be where I want it to be. I feel strong, good life [on the fastball]. I commanded my fastball inside-out pretty good. I've always been able to pitch inside well."

Escobar is about three months ahead of schedule in his recovery from July 29 surgery to repair a labrum tear in the back of his pitching shoulder. It began to bother him in the final month of his superlative, 18-win 2007 season, and while his performance suffered in September, Escobar managed to push aside the pain with one quality effort against the Red Sox at Fenway Park in Game 2 of the American League Division Series.

He has not pitched in a Major League game since that Oct. 5 night when the Red Sox prevailed, 6-3, Escobar departing after five innings.

Missing the entire 2008 season -- he made two brief, painful rehab assignments in the Minor Leagues before shutting it down -- made for some trying emotional times, Escobar actually contemplating retirement at one point.

"I feel like all the work I've put in is worth it," Escobar said. "I feel like I'm going to be back soon, throwing the way I always have."






