
TORONTO -- The game was the longest of the year for any Major League club. The toll it
took on the Angels' pitching staff likely will last a little longer.

The Blue Jays' Orlando Hudson delivered an 18th-inning RBI single off reliever Scot
Shields, the Angels sixth pitcher in the game, and handed the Halos a 2-1
loss and series sweep on Thursday at Rogers Centre.

It was the fourth straight loss -- the second in extra innings -- for the
Angels, who head into New York faced with numerous questions surrounding
their pitching staff. Angels manager Mike Scioscia met with some of the
front-office staff to discuss possible roster moves after the marathon
finally ended.

"We'll have some issues we're going to deal with," Scioscia said. "First and
foremost, we're going to look at getting an arm here for tomorrow.

"We're dealing with a lot of stuff for this weekend and compounded with 18
innings and compounded with [Esteban] Yan, [Joel] Peralta and [Brendan]
Donnelly maxing out tonight, we need a fresh arm for tomorrow."

Scioscia was not referring to a trade, but to an in-house solution to their
suddenly escalated pitching problems. On Tuesday, Scioscia said that
possible Minor League options rested with Chris Bootcheck or Joe Saunders,
both at Triple-A Salt Lake. Scioscia also mentioned the possibility of
calling up 2004 first-round pick Jered Weaver, who was promoted to Double-A this week, but the
manager added that was unlikely.

Closer Francisco Rodriguez blew just his third save of the season in the
ninth inning by giving up a bloop single to left field to Shea Hillenbrand
that scored Russ Adams. After Rodriguez left the game, the bullpen allowed
just one hit to the next 27 batters. Donnelly, Yan and Peralta combined for
eight scoreless innings and allowed only one hit.

On top of the bullpen, which saw 10 total innings of action, Angels starter
Jarrod Washburn has been scratched from his next start. He
was originally scheduled to pitch on Saturday against the Yankees, but has
been pitching with soreness in his throwing arm for the last few months. The
problem resurfaced during his last start last week against New York.

"I've had some tendinitis I've had in there that I've been battling,"
Washburn said. "I'm not pitching Saturday. The plan is just to miss a turn
and get on top of it before it balloons into something major."

Paul Byrd, who pitched only three-plus innings against Toronto on Tuesday,
will likely move up into Washburn's spot.

Issues with the pitching staff are the last thing the Angels need. The
offense has fallen into a prolonged slump and has only scored four runs in
its last 50 innings.

Steve Finley provided the lone run in the ninth inning on Thursday with a
fielder's choice RBI, which wasn't quite the support that starter John
Lackey needed to pick up his third straight win. Lackey has posted a 0.89
ERA in his last three starts, but earned a no-decision after pitching eight scoreless innings with nine strikeouts.

"We're about as stagnant as I've seen us and we know these guys are going to
come around," Scioscia said. "We're going to look at things as far as if we're going to have
to get creative with some lineups. Probably in our lineup
right now there's six or seven guys that are soft. That's not expected from
this group because these are usually pretty consistent and stay aggressve."

"It's tough to see because these guys work harder than anybody and they try
harder than anybody," Washburn said. "Nobody's more upset about it than they
are. It's a game of streaks and right now it's not a good one for us."

Lackey and Toronto starter Dave Bush matched zeroes for eight innings and
the  bullpens blanked the other lineups until Hudson's game-winner.

Bush left the game with one out in the ninth after loading the bases by
giving up a triple to Juan Rivera and intentionally walking Garret Anderson
and pinch-hitter Vladimir Guerrero. Finley followed with a grounder to third that
scored Rivera. Toronto's starter pitched 8 1/3 innings and allowed just the
one run on five hits.

Shields (6-6) entered the game in the 18th and walked Alex Rios with one
out. Rios stole second and moved to third on a wild pitch before Hudson pulled
the ball to right field for the game-winning hit.

Shields "gets a lot of ground balls," Scioscia said. "So, you have to give
Orlando credit when he hit a bullet into the teeth of our defense and got it
by" second baseman Adam Kennedy.

Toronto's Pete Walker (4-3) picked up the win after allowing no runs in the
final three innings.

"I want to go home. I want to sleep. I want to eat," said Vernon Wells,
Toronto's center fielder. "It was a first for a lot of us, playing in a game
that long. It was just good we came out on the winning side of it.

"It was a long one. It was fun to be a part of once, but hopefully, we don't
do it again."






