
SEATTLE -- The Angels are turning the one-run game into an art form, and in a cruel twist, they've adopted the walk-off loss to add stark contrast.

Stunning, in fact, because this is a team that leads its division and has one of the stingiest pitching staffs in baseball in terms of surrendering runs, but the late innings have not been kind to the Angels, specifically since the All-Star break.

The Angels dropped their second straight game to the Mariners, 2-1, on Tuesday, with Greg Dobbs driving in the winning run with two outs in the bottom of the ninth. Dobbs' single handed the Halos their seventh walk-off loss in the second half of the season, and their record in one-run games now stands at 27-25 on the year, with 17 of those losses coming on the road.

Despite enjoying a closer in Francisco Rodriguez who ranks third in the American League with 36 saves and owning a bullpen that is sixth in the league with a 3.64 ERA, the Angels have a tough time getting the edge in one-run contests, and it's having a direct effect on their inability to open any distance in the division.

The Angels had an opportunity to increase their lead back to two games in the AL West when Oakland lost at Cleveland, but the offense went 1-for-6 with runners in scoring position, and essentially wasted a strong pitching performance by starter Paul Byrd. The Angels must now win on Wednesday to avoid being swept and finish their nine-game road trip with a winning record.

"It doesn't matter what you lose by -- it is frustrating," Darin Erstad said. "We're obviously pitching fantastic, but hitting has been hit-or-miss, and that has been frustrating."

Byrd followed up a strong outing in his last start, when he tossed seven scoreless innings in a win at Boston, by allowing one run through eight innings to the Mariners -- a team he was 6-0 against throughout his career. For Byrd, the whole game came down to a couple of bunts and his inability to make the right play.

With the scored tied at 1 in the bottom of the ninth, Jeremy Reed led off the inning with a bunt single. Byrd worked the left-handed hitter away with soft stuff, figuring he wouldn't be able to pull the ball. But on an 0-1 curveball, Reed bunted to the right side, and Byrd guessed and broke toward the third-base side.

Raul Ibanez followed with a base hit off Byrd, who was relieved by Scot Shields. Manager Mike Scioscia then brought in Maicer Izturis to replace center fielder Steve Finley, and positioned him as a fifth infielder on the right side of the diamond.

The strategy proved to work when Richie Sexson bounced into a 4-8-3 double play. But after Shields intentionally walked Adrian Beltre, Dobbs lined a 1-0 single to center for the game-winner.

Byrd allowed his other run in the third, when Yuniesky Betancourt led of the inning with a single. After Yorvit Torrealba moved Betancourt over with a sacrifice, Ichiro Suzuki laid a bunt down the third-base line. Byrd fielded the ball but airmailed his throw over the head of Erstad at first, allowing Betancourt to score on the error for a 1-0 Mariners lead.

"I'll shoulder the loss for this one. Normally, I field that ball. Ichiro is fast, and I should have just eaten it," Byrd said. "That's why this is so tough. It feels like I wasted a start, for one, because it comes down to some balls I didn't field."

But not all felt that way.

"It tells you what kind of person he is," said Erstad, who had a chance to give the Angels the lead in the ninth with none out and the bases loaded, but bounced into a double play. "We have a lot of guys like that."

The Angels opened the ninth with a single by Orlando Cabrera and a ground-rule double by Garret Anderson. Vladimir Guerrero was given an intentional pass, and Erstad, who entered the game hitting .300 with runners in scoring position, came to the plate with a chance to break the game open.

Mariners reliever George Sherrill threw three straight sliders, and Erstad hit a bouncer to third that Beltre fielded before stepping on third for one out and throwing home, where Cabrera ended up getting caught in a rundown.

"Adrian played it really smart, getting the out first and getting me in a rundown," Cabrera said. "I extended it as long as I could, but I had nowhere to go."

J.J. Putz then got Bengie Molina to hit a high chopper to third to end the inning.

"You don't very often get out of a bases-loaded, no-out situation without a run being scored, especially against a team like that," Mariners manager Mike Hargrove said. "To do that and almost have the tables turned and done to you, it gets your heart racing pretty good. When it slows down, I'll let you know."

Byrd (11-10) allowed two runs (one earned) on the night, but got a loss for his efforts. On the other side, the Mariners got another solid start. A day after Joel Pineiro held the Angels to one run, Ryan Franklin allowed a run on eight hits and a walk over eight innings for a no-decision. Putz (6-5) picked up the win.

"This ranks up there, but I feel if I field that ball, we win," Byrd said.






