
LOS ANGELES -- A galvanizing moment it wasn't.

A frustrating loss to the Blue Jays on Thursday night led to some high postgame emotions as the shouting was clearly audible through closed doors.

By Friday afternoon, the Angels had closed ranks and declared any issues about effort or responsibility officially dead, preferring instead to express team unity.

A few hours later, it was the Dodgers who were making all the noise, and they did so with emphasis as they planted a 16-3 loss on the Angels to open the Interleague series.

The Dodgers scored in every inning except the first and put a nine-spot on the board in the sixth inning, the Dodgers' biggest frame since May 6, 2005.

The Angels fell a season-high eight games under .500 and are now running just ahead of the Kansas City Royals for the worst record in the American League while trailing the A's in the American League West by 5 1/2. It was the Angels' 15th loss in their last 20 games.

"We're burning the midnight oil to figure out what to do to right this ship," manager Mike Scioscia said. "We're lucky we're not buried 11-12 games out. We have to go about our business and get back on track."

Dodgers left fielder Andre Ethier led the attack by going 5-for-5 with three RBIs and a home run. That initiated a 25-hit attack that established a new Los Angeles Dodgers record. The franchise record of 28 hits was set in Brooklyn.

The 25 hits were the most allowed by the Angels since yielding 24 on Sept. 24, 2004, against Seattle. It was also one shy of a record 26 hits the Angels allowed on Aug. 28, 1980, in Baltimore.




Complete coverage &gt;

"As frustrating as it is for us and for the organization, it is more frustrating for the players," Scioscia said. "There are some holes in the lineup, we have some guys out right now. But we're going to move forward. We're going to go in the right direction. There are a lot of things to feel good about this club."

Finding things to feel good about translates into looking for silver linings and seeing Jeff Weaver's outing as a positive step is taking that perspective.

After finding it difficult to keep the ball in the yard in his last start, Weaver sat down with Scioscia, pitching coach Bud Black and the Angels catchers to help the starter find his confidence. On Saturday against the Dodgers, Weaver did not allow a homer, but the hitting binge was too difficult to stop.

Weaver (1-7) allowed four runs on 11 hits with two walks and a pair of strikeouts to take the loss. Dodgers starter Aaron Sele (2-0) allowed two runs on six hits and a walk over six innings to pick up the win.


"It is one of those things where you make the right adjustments and make your pitches, and you get the ground balls and get singled to death," Weaver said. "You have to think that you're making progress and move forward. The results were not what you want but the ball stayed in the yard, and hopefully the next time the ball finds some gloves."

Scioscia said that Weaver's line was not as bad as it looked. While Weaver is still a part of the rotation, Scioscia added the club has to be open to any solution.







"There are some holes in the lineup, we have some guys out right now. But we're going to move forward. We're going to go in the right direction. There are a lot of things to feel good about this club."




-- Angels manager Mike Scioscia





"If there are options that present themselves at any position, as our team struggles, we will look at all of those options," Scioscia said.

The Angels got on the board for a 2-0 lead in the top of the first. Orlando Cabrera singled with one out, and Vladimir Guerrero followed with his 11th home run of the season by taking a 1-0 pitch from Sele over the center-field wall.

The Dodgers then chipped away with single runs in the next four innings. In the second, Ethier singled with two out and scored on Russell Martin's double into the left-field corner. In the third, Jeff Kent tied the game with an RBI single that brought home Nomar Garciaparra.

In the fourth, Rafael Furcal gave the Dodgers the lead when his single to right scored Ethier, and in the fifth, Martin's single to right scored Kent and the Dodgers led, 4-2.

The Dodgers blew the game open with nine runs in the bottom of the sixth when they batted around and then some, sending 15 men to the plate. Furcal, Garciaparra, J.D. Drew and Kent all reached base twice in the inning.

Furcal scored a pair, and also knocked in two runs with a triple. Garciaparra doubled, singled, scored a run and drove in one while Drew was walked intentionally, singled and scored.

Kent forced in the first run when he was hit by a pitch from Angels reliever Esteban Yan with the bases loaded. Willie Aybar hit a two-run double, while Ethier, Martin and pinch-hitter Olmedo Saenz all had RBI singles.

Garret Anderson, Bartolo Colon, Darin Erstad and Casey Kotchman are four key players currently out with various ailments. Anderson might return during the Dodgers series, but Scioscia realizes a turnaround will not be immediate.

"It is not a quick fix but if some guys get back in the lineup we can right this ship and start to play better," Scioscia said.






