
ANAHEIM -- Vladimir Guerrero is their main man, but the Angels aren't exactly 98-pound weaklings without him, getting sand kicked in their faces.

With Big Daddy Vladdy watching, a right triceps inflammation sidelining him, the Angels pounded the Indians for 15 hits in a 10-3 knockout on Thursday night, stretching their American League West lead to eight games over the idle Mariners.

Leading the charge in support of Kelvim Escobar, winning his 16th decision against seven losses, were Garret Anderson and Casey Kotchman. They delivered three RBIs apiece, Kotchman, with two doubles, joining the party Anderson has been hosting for several weeks.

Hotter than any hitter in the game, Anderson homered for the ninth time in the past 16 games while extending to 11 games an RBI streak that is now a club record, giving him a matching set with the one for consecutive games with a hit (28) he already owned.

"That's the only thing I ever think about as a hitter," Anderson said of RBIs, having extended his career total to a franchise record 1,199. "I've made my living driving in runs, not worrying about home runs."

Homers for Anderson are byproducts of doing all the right things with the bat, underscoring the nature of the current run that has produced 30 RBIs in 16 games and 56 RBIs since the All-Star break, most in the Majors.

"The year I hit 35 [2000], I know I had 26 before the break," he said. "There must have been a streak in that first half of that season."

Escobar, a grateful beneficiary of runs and defensive wizardry from shortstop Orlando Cabrera, can't recall anyone as hot as Anderson is at the moment.

"I don't think I've ever seen anything like Garret, the way he's going now," Escobar said.

The pride of Venezuela came out of the chute blazing with back-to-back strikeouts, but it soon was evident he did not have his A game. What he did bring were his intelligence and toughness, qualities that can sustain a pitcher.

After yielding back-to-back doubles to Kenny Lofton and Kelly Shoppach in the third, Escobar issued a pair of walks, loading the bases for Victor Martinez. The Tribe's most dangerous weapon with 100 RBIs, Martinez struck out on a wicked splitter. Damage control 101.

"The key for me was to be able to minimize damage," Escobar said. "In that inning, I was facing one of the best hitters in the league. You have to stay within yourself and don't give in, keep making good pitches. That was a real good pitch, the split."

The Angels drew even against losing pitcher Paul Byrd (14-6) in the bottom half of the inning, when Reggie Willits -- pressed into action when Guerrero bowed out -- smacked a hustle double to right-center, scoring when Gary Matthews Jr. whistled a single through the right side.

Taking second, from the Angels' handbook, on Cabrera's fly ball to left, Matthews figured he was headed home on Anderson's bullet headed toward right field. But Martinez -- a catcher by trade -- made a sprawling stab to take an RBI away from Anderson, delaying the inevitable.

The Indians seized the lead in the fifth on Franklin Gutierrez's 11th homer -- a solo job thanks to the superlative glove work of Cabrera, who took hits away from Josh Barfield and Grady Sizemore. Travis Hafner's double and Martinez's single made it 3-1 before Escobar escaped.

Once again, the Angels came roaring back.

With Jeff Mathis (hit by a pitch) and Matthews (single) aboard, Anderson slashed a two-out single to center. Eleven games in a row with an RBI for Mr. Consistency, two shy of the AL record and four away from the Major League record.

Kendry Morales, settling in comfortably as the cleanup man, smoked a single to right-center for another run, and the Angels were even at 3. Kotchman hammered a two-strike delivery to the right-center gap for a two-run double and the lead.

Byrd and his four-game winning streak were done.

Running up a high pitch count, Escobar got a pair of punchouts to open the sixth, but departed after Barfield singled. Darren Oliver came on, and after Barfield stole second, he was ready to trot home on Sizemore's blast to center. But Matthews turned on the jets and saved yet another run, tracking the ball at the wall.

The Angels just kept banging away. Mathis doubled in the sixth, scoring on Cabrera's two-out single. Kotchman launched a double in the seventh to cash in Maicer Izturis, and Howie Kendrick's single delivered Kotchman.

"Our two-out hits were huge, and we were 7-for-13 with runners in scoring position," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "We're young, and with Vlad out, we're even younger. Our younger guys -- Kendrick, Reggie Willits, Mathis, Kendry Morales -- all gave us good at-bats.

"And it's great to see Garret doing things he's capable of. He's been a big part of our resurgence."

When Cabrera singled in the eighth against Juan Lara, Anderson stepped in and hurt another southpaw. The homer to right was his sixth against lefties this season to go with 23 RBIs -- both club highs.

Anderson is batting .329 against left-handers, a contrarian doing his part to dispute the common notion that southpaws can't hit southpaws.

Right now, the man who put Kennedy High School in Granada Hills on the Southern California map is an equal opportunity abuser of pitchers.






