
ANAHEIM -- The Angels' ride as division front-runners has gone mostly to plan and largely as expected.

They've combined a strong rotation with a solid and stingy bullpen to keep them in most games. The staff was particularly responsible for the team's success through April and May, when the bats spent much of the time near the bottom of most offensive categories.

But in June, the Angels were as hot as any team in baseball as they posted a 17-9 record and increased their lead in the American League West from 1 1/2 games over Texas to 6 1/2.

At the close of 81 games, the team had posted 50 wins (50-31) for the first time in franchise history -- the record is now 52-36 -- and to a man it seemed about right.

"Those kinds of struggles happen every season," starter Jarrod Washburn said. "I don't think our struggles at that point were unexpected."

Bridging the gap has been the pitching staff that was third in the AL with a 3.79 ERA.

"Pitching has been the biggest key," Washburn said. "Years in the past, we haven't pitched up to our potential. We're getting consistently quality starts now. We all want to go out there and give our team a chance to win."

Though the expectations continue to point toward the division crown and a deep run into the postseason, nothing is being taken for granted.

"I'm not looking past the next game," manager Mike Scioscia said. "If we have a lead at the end of the season, then we can talk."

Club MVP: Chone Figgins has been everywhere this season, but Vladimir Guerrero is the player around which this club spins. The six-time All-Star led the Majors by hitting .443 in June.


Call him 'Ace': This year's staff is better than that of 2002 club that won the World Series and the No. 1 reason is Bartolo Colon. The right-hander was 7-2 in his last 10 starts of the first half and had two complete games this season, both losses.

Greatest strength: The pitching staff has held the team together throughout the first half and proved essential when the offense struggled in the season's first two months. Both the rotation and the bullpen have performed near the top of the AL.








Biggest problem: The Angels are not going to slug it out with anyone, which puts pressure on the offense to manufacture runs. The Angels continue to mix and match at DH and will adjust the lineup to go with the most productive bats.

Biggest surprise: Dallas McPherson has added some punch to the lineup, but his defense at third base has been better than expected. The Angels were second in the AL with a .986 fielding percentage.

Team needs: The Angels do not have any glaring holes, allowing general manager Bill Stoneman to approach the trading deadline cautiously. Right-hander Kelvim Escobar is out until late August, but Ervin Santana has shown he can bridge the gap. Though the club lacks right-handed power other than Guerrero, the club is most likely to maintain a lineup that is built more around speed than power.

Oh, doctor: Escobar (right elbow surgery), Guerrero (partially dislocated left shoulder), Bengie Molina (right quadriceps strain), Adam Kennedy (offseason knee surgery), Francisco Rodriguez (right forearm strain), Steve Finley (right shoulder strain), Orlando Cabrera (right elbow strain) and McPherson (inflammation of left hip) have all been disabled. Finley is due back Thursday, Cabrera perhaps by the weekend, McPherson soon after and Escobar will return in late August.

He said it: "It is going to be tough to decide who gets a postseason start." -- Washburn of the five viable candidates in Angels rotation

Mark your calendar: July 18-20 vs. Oakland, July 29-31 at Yankees, Aug. 9-11 at Oakland, Aug. 18-21 vs. Boston, Aug. 30-Sept. 1 vs. Oakland, Sept. 6-8 at Boston, Sept. 9-11 at White Sox, Sept. 20-22 vs. Texas, Sept. 26-29 at Oakland and Sept. 30-Oct. 2 at Texas.

Fearless second-half prediction: The Angels will win AL West by at least 10 games.






