
ANAHEIM -- Two issues remained unchanged in the recently concluded series between the Yankees and Angels.

With the best record, the Angels have clear sight lines to the postseason.

By losing for the fifth time in seven games and getting swept by the Angels after opening their current 10-game trip with a split in Texas, the Yankees' view to October is obstructed.

So what have we learned?

Basically, that the Angels are cruising. They have few flaws, if any, at the moment, and they have a huge lead in a weak American League West.

Sure, that was understood going into the three-game series, but the Angels did not merely prove they're hot -- they secured their status as the team to beat in either league.

"We come to play the game," said Chone Figgins, whose run-scoring, multihop single provided the Angels with a 4-3 walk-off victory Sunday. "With the pitching staff we have, the defense we play and the offense we have, we stay in a lot of ballgames."

But where the Yankees appeared ready to take control of their postseason destiny by bolting from the All-Star break with an eight-game winning streak and 11 wins in 16 games, their recent string suggests otherwise.

"It seems like a long time ago," said Andy Pettitte, who allowed three runs in seven-plus innings on Sunday for a no-decision. "We haven't been able to sustain it or be consistent."

Injuries plague every club, but the Yankees have lost key players at inopportune moments. Hideki Matsui has been unable to return from swelling in his left knee since June 23, and right-handed starter Chien-Ming Wang was lost for the season a week earlier with a partially torn tendon in his right foot. Wang totaled 19 victories for the Yankees in 2007.

Catcher Jorge Posada nursed a sore right shoulder for most of the season before opting for surgery July 30 that ended his season.

Despite losing some major pieces to the ballclub, the Yankees managed to fight within three games of the American League East lead near the end of July and filled some holes with the Trade Deadline acquisitions of catcher Ivan Rodriguez and outfielder Xavier Nady.

They also freshened the bullpen with the addition of left-hander Damaso Marte, who was part of the Nady deal.

The recent loss of Joba Chamberlain, though, will be tougher to absorb. The 22-year-old right-hander was placed on the disabled list with tendinitis in his right rotator cuff and has yet to resume throwing.

Chamberlain would have started the series opener against the Angels on Friday, but the start instead went to Ian Kennedy, who departed in the third inning after allowing five runs on nine hits. Kennedy was optioned to Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre on Sunday and replaced by left-hander Billy Traber.

A rotation of Mike Mussina, Pettitte and Chamberlain with Sidney Ponson occupying the fourth slot and a spot starter in the fifth, while tenuous, could be sufficient with adequate run support and a stingy bullpen.

Getting the call for only his third Major League start Saturday was Dan Giese, and the Anaheim product responded by allowing one run over six innings for a no-decision. But the potential victory was tossed aside when the bullpen imploded by allowing a season-high eight runs in the eighth. Edwar Ramirez allowed five runs and could not get an out.

On Sunday, Pettitte was handed the task of avoiding the Yankees' first sweep at Angel Stadium in 13 years and the left-hander responded with seven innings and three runs and left with one on in the eighth, handing a tie game to Marte.

Marte was efficient by quickly retiring three batters to end the inning, but he allowed a leadoff single to Howie Kendrick in the ninth. After a one-out walk to Mike Napoli, Marte gave way to Mariano Rivera, who threw one pitch, but Figgins fought off a cutter and hit a bouncer between Robinson Cano and Wilson Betemit and into right field for the winner.

Yankees manager Joe Girardi was even reluctant to activate his bullpen in the sixth after Pettitte was hit by a ball off the bat of Garret Anderson.

The Yankees were able to flex some of their power during the series with four home runs but hitting with runners in scoring position was nearly non-existent as they posted a .181 average over the three games.

They had their best chance of a victory in Sunday's series finale and could have delivered an early knockout blow when the first four batters reached in the top of the first to score a pair of runs but Angels left-hander Joe Saunders escaped and ended up going seven innings for a no-decision.

"There's no question we haven't done our job and we haven't been good. And it's very frustrating," Alex Rodriguez said. "We have to get better. It's as simple as that."

With Chamberlain's return uncertain, the Yankees must plug three holes in the rotation and hope they get better offensive production to offset what could be a tough stretch.

The Yankees open a three-game series Monday against the Twins, who are 2 1/2 games ahead of the Bombers in the AL Wild Card race. They have 31 games out of 44 remaining against teams with winning records and 19 of those games will be against teams running ahead of them in the race to the postseason: Minnesota, Boston, Tampa and the White Sox.

"We have a lot of games left. We just have to forget about this series and begin tomorrow anew," Cano said.

For the Angels, the task over the final seven weeks will be to maintain their momentum, a current pace that would carry them over the 100-win mark for the first time in franchise history.

Their starters lead the Majors with 58 victories, and though John Lackey and Saunders were each unable to record a victory in the series, both starters were able to survive early deficits, pitch deep into the game and allow the bullpen to pick up the slack and the offense to forge a lead.

They have the leading closer in Francisco Rodriguez, who has 45 saves and made his only appearance during the weekend when he pitched the ninth Sunday for the win. The only question regarding Rodriguez is whether he'll get enough opportunities to eclipse Bobby Thigpen's record 57 saves in 1990.

Then there is an offense that was sluggish in the first half but has found its stride with the resurgence of Anderson, Torii Hunter and Vladimir Guerrero and the arrival of Mark Teixeira, who occupies the three hole. Teixeira went 5-for-12 with one homer and three RBIs in the series.

"We're not perfect," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "There are a lot of challenges out there and we're going to play the best baseball we can."






