
ANAHEIM -- Kelvim Escobar just can't seem to avoid the White Sox.

Embroiled in controversy earlier this year and on the mound for two infamous plays against the White Sox in last year's American League Championship Series, Escobar is set to start the Angels' makeup game on Monday in Chicago.

The contest was scheduled after the team's series finale was rained out on May 11, a game Escobar was set to start only two weeks after riling White Sox manager Ozzie Guillen when he hit A.J. Pierzynski with a pitch.

"Yea, that's weird," Escobar said of starting the makeup game.

But the right-hander defused most questions about Guillen, the White Sox and his history with Pierzynski.

"It's over. It happened a long time ago so I don't really think about it," Escobar said. "I don't have anything against any of those guys."

Guillen was upset with Escobar after he hit Pierzynski in the leg on April 29 in Anaheim. Both teams were warned after the incident, but there were no confrontations.

That is until after the game, when Guillen made comments that Escobar didn't appreciate. Guillen said Escobar should have "hit himself" and that he made "dumb plays" in the ALCS last year.

Those plays, of course, refer to Escobar trying to tag Pierzynski with an empty glove in Chicago's eventual game-winning rally in Game 5 and Escobar pitching when former Angels catcher Josh Paul rolled the ball back to the mound on a controversial dropped third strike in Game 2.

Pierzynski just happened to also be the hitter during that dramatic moment, which was the reason Guillen was so upset when Escobar plunked his catcher.

Escobar didn't want to comment on whether he deserved an apology from Guillen, but added that his feelings were much different a few months ago.

"At that time, I was really fired up because what happened here," he said. "I heard the fans [in Chicago] talking a lot of stuff to me before that game."

Even though another hit batter will likely result in a warning and could ignite another incident, Escobar said he wouldn't be afraid to pitch inside.

"If I come inside, I just have to make sure I come inside the right way," he said. "If you hit somebody, you hit somebody, you don't try to do it."

Izturis hurt: Maicer Izturis left Sunday's game in the top of the second inning with a tight right hamstring. The third baseman, who singled and scored on Garret Anderson's three-run home run in the bottom of the first, was replaced by Robb Quinlan.
The move was just precautionary and manager Mike Scioscia said after the game that Izturis could be available Monday if needed, but would likely get the day off.


Molina starts: Despite catcher Mike Napoli's familiarity with Sunday's starter, Joe Saunders, Scioscia started Jose Molina for the second straight day.

"Going to have to break that," Scioscia said. "Both catchers are going to have to catch all our guys."

Napoli has essentially been the regular backstop since a few weeks after he was called up from Triple-A Salt Lake on May 4. His 12 home runs are tied for the most by an AL rookie this year.

But the catcher has slumped for more than a month and has hit just .145 (11-for-76) since the beginning of July.

Even though Jeff Mathis is hitting .293 at Salt Lake, Scioscia said there is no plan to recall him in favor of Napoli, in part because he feels the rookie has done a good job on the defensive side.

No rest: Following Sunday's game, the Angels are set to embark on a four-city, 10-game road trip that will take them to Chicago for one game, Cleveland for three, New York for four and then Texas for two.

The Angels will open a four-game set at home with the Mariners on Aug. 17 before they can enjoy their first day off in 24 days. The run of games will force Scioscia to rest his regulars more than he'd prefer.

"We don't have that ability to freshen some guys up, so guys are going to get some days off," he said. "The thing with fatigue is that it can creep in negative ways into a guy's game. It can throw your swing off. With a pitcher it throws off your mechanics and it also heightens your risk of injury."

With a string of facing three left-handers in four games, Scioscia said Tim Salmon will have a strong chance of playing in a couple of those contests, but added the likelihood of Salmon starting in the outfield was "a long shot."

Rehab report: Dallas McPherson continued to rediscover his stroke in his rehab assignment with Salt Lake, but Scioscia said there is no timetable for his return.

McPherson, who will see equal time at first base and third base when he does make it back to the Angels, hit a home run and went 3-for-3 with three RBIs as the designated hitter on Saturday in the Bees' 10-5 loss to Albuquerque. Since McPherson resumed his rehab stint on Thursday after a stiff back put a temporary hold on his recovery, he has gone 5-for-7.

Up next: Escobar will face left-hander Mark Buehrle at U.S. Cellular Field at 4:05 p.m. PT on Monday.






