
ANAHEIM -- Mark Teixeira has been the model of consistency for the Angels since being acquired from the Braves on July 29.



The switch-hitting slugger has batted .362 with nine home runs and 33 RBIs without missing a start in 38 games. He also has a .444 on-base percentage and a .610 slugging percentage in that time frame to lead the Angels.



But the first baseman was out of the starting lineup for the first time on Wednesday because of fever-like symptoms.



"I started running a fever last night, so they got me on antibiotics to make sure it doesn't get worse," Teixeira said. "You know how you feel when you have a fever and your body is achy and you don't feel right."



It's the first time since July 29 that Teixeira has missed a game, and he only missed that one because it was the day he was traded from the Braves.



The Angels, though, are hoping that Teixeira will be better Thursday when they open a four-game series against the Mariners at Angel Stadium.



"He's running a little temperature, so we're going to let it calm down for a day," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "He should be OK."



Teixeira said he hopes to be back in the lineup again Thursday, because sitting out was just a precautionary measure.



"If it were the playoffs, I'd be out there, no doubt," Teixeira said. "But there's no reason to risk it getting worse and me being out for an extended period."



Teixeira wasn't the only Angels regular out of the lineup, as Chone Figgins missed his second straight game because of a sore elbow and Torii Hunter began serving his two-game suspension.



Figgins was injured Monday when he was hit by a pitch by Carl Pavano on his right elbow. X-rays were taken on Figgins' elbow, but they came back negative.



"Figgy's elbow is still to a point where he couldn't throw, and it affects his swing," Scioscia said. "We're going to let this thing heal up, and hopefully he'll be in there in a couple of days."



Kendry Morales made his second start of the season at first base in Teixeira's absence and Robb Quinlan started at third base for the 21st time this season. Gary Matthews Jr. started in center field and batted first.






