
ANAHEIM -- Howie Kendrick's name was mentioned so many times in July that Bill Stoneman's mantra became, "Just say no."

The Angels general manager was eager to acquire a veteran bat at the trading deadline but suffered sticker shock at the variety of price tags, particularly when it included the team's coveted prospects and specifically if "Kendrick" was penciled onto the offer sheet.

Labeled can't miss for his ability to hit, Kendrick proved his case and generated some new believers by going 4-for-4 as the Angels earned a 12-7 victory over the Yankees on a cloudless Saturday afternoon.

Kendrick finished a triple shy of the cycle, and had his last chance of the day erased when the Yankees walked him intentionally in the eighth. Vladimir Guerrero went 3-for-4 with two RBIs, while Garret Anderson drove in four runs.

"It is always nice to have an any-hit game: one, two, three, whatever," Kendrick said. "To be able to step in and win games is fun."

The victory puts the Angels in a position to sweep the Yankees when the series concludes Sunday afternoon, but that should come as no surprise. They improved to 55-51 over the Yankees since 1996 and assured themselves of the season series with Saturday's win.

But there was also a bit more than baseball on the day, and it threatened to boil over into the Angels' second bench-clearing incident in the last two weeks. The Angels tangled with the Rangers in Texas on Aug. 16, as both sides had personnel ejected and subsequent suspensions for throwing at opposing batters.

On Saturday, Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter was hit by a pitch thrown by Angels starter Ervin Santana in the fifth inning, marking the second time he was hit in the series.

Later, Yankees reliever Brian Bruney threw an inside pitch to Guerrero and also hit Adam Kennedy with a pitch, but it was a ball that he threw behind Juan Rivera with two out and none on in the bottom of the fifth that raised emotions and drew a warning from home-plate umpire Tim McClelland.

Neither dugout emptied and Rivera took a few moments to cool down while exchanging words with Yankees catcher Jorge Posada in the dugout, but the Angels took exception to the pitch to Rivera.

"Those guys pitch inside aggressively; we pitch inside aggressively," manager Mike Scioscia said, adding that he had no problem with the pitches to Guerrero or Kennedy. "But that ball to Juan is unwarranted. Throwing behind a guy's back is not baseball."

Rivera, who went 1-for-5 with an RBI double and was the target of a similar incident at home against the Rangers' Adam Eaton on Aug. 6, said the pitch was retaliatory.

"[Catcher] Sal Fasano told me it was all related to Derek Jeter," Rivera said through an interpreter. "I don't mind it at all because it works me up a little bit. It puts me on edge."

Bruney didn't back down.

"Obviously he was upset; that's baseball. Everybody needs to be protected," Bruney said. "These guys go to war for us every day, so you have to protect every one of the guys."

Rivera said that more than anything it served to wake up the Angels, and he briefly thought Posada was coming out of the dugout but realized it was a misunderstanding.

"My initial thought was that he instigated it; that he was coming out to fight," Rivera said. "But we talked about it at home plate and everything is OK between us."

Lost in the shuffle was Santana, who improved to 4-0 against the Yankees in four career starts and ran his record to 13-6 overall this season.  The sophomore right-hander allowed five runs, four of which were earned, on seven hits and three walks with five strikeouts over 6 1/3 innings. Bruney (0-1) took the loss.

The game featured 19 runs and 26 hits, the second time in two days the Angels and Yankees have flirted with the four-hour mark, but Kendrick's star burned a little brighter and his solo home run in the sixth handed the Angels a lead they didn't relinquish.

Stoneman has been criticized for attaching more value than necessary to his Minor Leaguers, but the injection of youth into the lineup has been the difference this season between languishing below the .500 mark and being in the hunt.

Kendrick is hitting .348 since the All-Star break, while forming a platoon at first base with Robb Quinlan. Kendrick also starts at second against left-handers.

Other rookies also are making key contributions.

Jered Weaver and Joe Saunders have helped to solidify the rotation by going a combined 13-2, and Mike Napoli has played like a veteran behind the plate despite suffering a second-half offensive slump.

Kendrick has been particularly successful against the Yankees and increased his totals against them to 13-for-20.

"He's pretty impressive. We thought he was impressive at our place," said Yankees manager Joe Torre. "He doesn't seem to worry about getting ahead or behind, he hits the ball to right and left. He's a very good-looking young man. We haven't pitched him very well, obviously."

The Angels and Yankees traded runs through the first 5 1/2 innings, highlighted by Anderson's two-run homer in the third and Jason Giambi's two-run double in the fifth. Posada lifted a pinch-hit sac fly to center in the top of the sixth that drew the Yankees even for the second time in the game before Kendrick led off the bottom of the sixth with his second home run.

Guerrero hit an RBI triple in the Angels' three-run seventh and Orlando Cabrera and Rivera hit RBI doubles as the Angels scored three more runs in the eighth. Johnny Damon hit a two-run homer in the top of the eighth.

"No lead against the Yankees is safe," Kendrick said. "You still have to execute and put more runs up."






