
The Angels extended invitations to attend Spring Training to 21 non-roster players Friday.

The group includes veteran outfielder Tim Salmon, pitcher Jered Weaver and shortstop Brandon Wood, the organization's co-Minor League player of the year. Pitchers and catchers are due to report Feb. 15 with the first workout set for the next day. Position players will report Feb. 20 with the first full-squad workout scheduled for the following day.

A total of 12 pitchers have been invited, along with five catchers, two infielders and two outfielders.

Salmon spent all of the 2005 season rehabbing from a pair of surgeries, one to his left shoulder and another to his left knee. The 37-year-old is hoping to provide an answer for the Angels as a right-handed power DH. Salmon last appeared in 2004 when he hit .253 with two homers and 23 RBIs in 60 games. Salmon is the franchise leader with 290 homers.

Weaver heads to camp more than just a hopeful as he will compete for the fifth spot in the rotation primarily with Hector Carrasco, Kevin Gregg, Joe Saunders and Chris Bootcheck.

The Angels' first pick of the 2004 draft, Weaver was a combined 7-4 with a 3.91 ERA in 15 starts last year over two Minor League stops. The right-hander also made a good showing in the Arizona Fall League.

Wood led the entire Minor Leagues by hitting 43 homers at Class A Rancho Cucamonga last season. Wood also tied the California League lead with 115 RBIs and was tops in the circuit with 50 doubles, 109 runs scored and a .667 slugging percentage.

Selected first by the Angels in 2003, Wood hit 14 homers to set a new AFL mark this past fall.

Also invited to Spring Training were right-handed pitchers Matt Hensley, Dustin Moseley, Bob Zimmermann, Nicholas Adenhart, David Austen, Tommy Mendoza and Alex Serrano, and left-handed pitchers Tim Bittner, Nathan Bland, Dan Davidson and Jon Rouwenhorst.

Outfielder Curtis Pride will return and infielder Brian Specht also returns to big-league camp.

The five catchers are Ryan Budde, Michael Collins, Brent Del Chiaro, Brett Martinez and Bobby Wilson.






