
ANGELS 5, GIANTS 4
at Tempe, Ariz.
Friday, March 6

Giants at the plate: Ryan Rohlinger maintained the Giants' streak of homering in each Cactus League game with a two-out, two-run drive off Jason Bulger in the ninth inning. It briefly put San Francisco ahead, 4-3. With two out and nobody on, Bulger hit Emmanuel Burriss with a pitch to prolong the ninth. Bengie Molina went 2-for-3, lining a first-inning RBI double and a third-inning single that set up Rich Aurilia's run-scoring groundout.










Angels at the plate: Los Angeles erased its short-lived deficit as ex-Giant Luis Figueroa doubled on Billy Sadler's first pitch leading off the ninth and Brad Coon homered on an 0-1 fastball. The Angels broke a 2-2 tie in the sixth as Kendry Morales singled with two outs, stole second and scored on Mike Napoli's single. Earlier, Morales' fifth-inning leadoff single, Los Angeles' first hit, sparked a two-run uprising that tied the score against ex-Angel Ramon Ortiz. Morales proceeded to third on Howie Kendrick's single and scored on Chris Pettit's groundout. Ryan Budde was hit by a pitch before Peter Bourjos hit an RBI single.

Giants on the mound: Tim Lincecum again was dominant, walking one and striking out three in three no-hit innings. Recovering from the elbow ailments that have plagued him most of the past year, Merkin Valdez pitched a perfect fourth inning in his first Cactus League appearance.

Angels on the mound: Los Angeles pitchers have allowed just 23 runs in eight games. Dustin Moseley couldn't quite match his previous start March 1, when he pitched two scoreless innings against Kansas City. Moseley yielded two runs and five hits in three innings this time.

Cactus League records: Giants 4-6; Angels 7-1

Up next: Giants right-hander Matt Cain will make his third start of the Cactus League season when he opposes Colorado on Saturday. Alex Hinshaw, Jeremy Affeldt and Bob Howry are scheduled to follow Cain to the mound. Right-hander Jason Hirsh will start for the Rockies.

Meanwhile, the Angels will make their second trip to Tucson in six days when they confront the Arizona Diamondbacks. Los Angeles' John Lackey and Arizona's Dan Haren will meet in a matchup of top right-handers.






