
ANAHEIM -- The Angels made a slew of moves on Monday.

Garret Anderson and Maicer Izturis came off the 15-day disabled list, taking the roster spots of Mike Napoli and Erik Aybar, both of whom moved to the DL after getting injured in Sunday's game at Baltimore.

Napoli fielded a laser from right fielder Vladimir Guerrero as a sliding Melvin Mora knocked his left shin guard loose. Napoli applied the tag in time to end the game and preserve the Angels' 4-3 win over Baltimore, but not before suffering a high left ankle sprain. X-rays did not reveal any broken bones, but foot and ankle specialist Dr. Kenneth Jung will examine the catcher tomorrow.

It's the first trip to the DL in Napoli's career.

Aybar was sidelined with a right hand contusion after attempting a diving catch in left against the Orioles. Like Napoli, the DL designation marks the first in Aybar's career. Inconclusive X-rays prompted a CT scan and examination by hand and wrist specialist Dr. Steve Shin.

Also on Monday, the Angels optioned outfielder Nick Gorneault to Triple-A Salt Lake. He went 0-for-4 with a run scored in two games with the Halos. Gorneault joined the team after Shea Hillenbrand was designated for assignment, making his Major League debut on June 30.

Catcher Jeff Mathis, who was with the Salt Lake Bees, will replace Gorneault on the 25-man roster, while injured outfielder Garrett Anderson and infielder Maicer Izturis were activated from the 15-day DL to replace Napoli and Aybar.

Anderson has been out since June 17 after aggravating a strained right hip flexor that resulted in his first DL stint from April 28-June 3. Anderson has a .264 average with three homers and 15 RBIs in 34 games this season.

Izturis has been out of action since May 3 with a tight right hamstring, but he was further hampered by a strained left oblique in his rehabilitation assignment at Salt Lake. In seven games at Class A Rancho Cucamonga, Izturis batted .318 with three runs scored and three RBIs. In 29 games with the Angels, he has hit .245 with 14 RBIs and a home run.






