
TEMPE, Ariz. -- Mike Napoli isn't ready to test his right shoulder with any bullets to second base yet, but the Angels' catcher is optimistic it will pass the test when it arrives in the next week or so.

"It's been feeling a lot better the last week," Napoli said on Monday of his shoulder that was repaired with arthroscopic surgery on Oct. 28. "I'm able to do everything but throw. I'll be OK."











Napoli was better than OK late in the 2008 season, serving notice that he's on the threshold of emerging as a full-fledged, full-service Major League slugger.

Angels manager Mike Scioscia has been tossing around the idea of giving Napoli some at-bats as a designated hitter this year, which would be a way to keep him in the lineup if he's not able to operate behind the plate when the season opens on April 6.

"We're going to get him ready with everything but throwing," Scioscia said. "We're going to err on the side of caution. He's going to be ready when he's ready. There's no calendar or timetable. You can't look at April 6 and say he's going to be ready then. It looks like he is going to be ready to DH.

"He's feeling very confident where his shoulder is. If there's a spot Mike carves out and he's the best [DH] option, we're certainly not going to rule him out. But we have some guys who can swing the bat, and we want to see what they can do early in the year.

"We have a lot of offensive depth this year. Our lineup has a lot of bats in it. Mike's a terrific catcher. We need to keep perspective. We're looking for him to be a catcher for a long time."

If Napoli isn't ready to catch, Jeff Mathis would inherit most of the playing time, with Bobby Wilson or Ryan Budde the likely backup.

The signing of Bobby Abreu adds another bat to the DH equation, with Abreu and Juan Rivera ticketed to share left field with Torii Hunter in center and Vladimir Guerrero in right. Other DH candidates include Gary Matthews Jr., Robb Quinlan, Brandon Wood and Reggie Willits.

After missing a month (July 7-Aug. 7) with inflammation in his right shoulder, Napoli exploded down the stretch, hitting .453 in September with six homers and 16 RBIs in 53 at-bats. He finished at .273, and his 20 homers in 227 at-bats, a ratio (11.35) surpassed only by the White Sox Carlos Quentin (13.33) in the American League.

On top of that, his .586 slugging percentage would have led the AL if he'd had enough at-bats to quality for the distinction that went to Alex Rodriguez at .573.

Napoli, 27 on the day of his surgery, enjoyed one of the greatest individual performances in franchise history in Game 3 of the AL Division Series in Boston. He launched a pair of game-changing homers and singled and scoring the winning run in the 12th inning while handling six pitchers and calling 225 pitches.

"I felt really good with my swing after I came back [in August]," Napoli said. "I just need to keep it where I had it."

A .248 career hitter with a .362 on-base percentage and a .493 slugging percentage, Napoli has 46 homers and 125 RBIs in 714 Major League at-bats -- the equivalent of about a full season and a quarter.

After a breakout 2006 season, Napoli has endured a string of injuries while sharing catching duties the past two seasons with his buddy, Mathis. Each player has appeared in a total of 153 games the past two years.






