
OAKLAND -- The Angels can only begin to dream, but the what-ifs are slowly becoming more plausible.

Such as, what if they continue playing loose and winning baseball, while the A's feel the increasing pressure of the pennant race?

Or, what if the A's join the ranks of the clubs that have suffered monumental collapses like the '64 Phillies or the '87 Blue Jays or even the '95 Angels?

Intriguing questions all, but the Angels aren't biting.

"We can't worry about that. We have to worry about Texas and we have to think about Texas," Angels center fielder Chone Figgins said of their upcoming series. "As a team, we know we're going to go down fighting, but we have to worry about ourselves and not what [the A's] are doing."

The Angels have certainly done a good job letting their opinions known about the race for the American League West by winning the past two games against the A's, with Sunday's coming in the form of a no-doubt, 7-1 rout.

Maicer Izturis drove in two runs with a triple, and Vladimir Guerrero hit a two-run homer, while Ervin Santana was brilliant.

The Angels came into the series staring at a seven-game deficit that grew to eight games after dropping a heart-breaking, 12-inning loss on Friday to open the series. That not only extended the Angels' deficit to eight back with nine games to play, but it whittled the A's magic number to two and set the stage for a hometown celebration with a win in one of the next two games.

But the Angels have suddenly found a rhythm to their season and are playing some of their best ball all season.

On Saturday they turned to John Lackey, who allowed just two runs to keep his team alive. Sunday it was Santana's turn, and the sophomore right-hander stepped up his game to allow just one run over eight innings to pick up his 15th win this season.

The Angels suddenly find themselves in a position to win the division outright by winning their last seven games and the A's losing all seven. They can also force a one-game playoff if they go 6-1 and the A's lose all seven or if the Angels win the last seven and the A's go 1-6.

The one-game playoff would be in Anaheim on Monday, Oct. 2.

"We have become a better team as the season has moved forward. We have become a good team over the last 60 games or so," manager Mike Scioscia said. "Our challenge is well-defined. We'll need some help. Coming down to the end of the season, we have to concentrate on what we're doing and keep winning games."

The A's now head to Seattle for three games, while the Angels return home for a three-game series against the Rangers before hosting the A's in a four-game set to close out the regular season.

"We have enough on our plate to keep us busy," Scioscia said. "We can't focus on other teams."

Sharpening his focus on Sunday afternoon was Santana, who has proven in two short years that he enjoys pitching in big games.

Last season, he took the mound at McAfee Coliseum as the Angels clinched their second straight AL West crown. He followed that up with a start in Texas and helped the Angels clinch home-field advantage in last year's first round of the playoffs.

Then in Game 5 of the ALDS, Santana relieved for Bartolo Colon, who suffered a shoulder injury, and picked up the win over the Yankees as the Angels advanced to the ALCS.

One curious aspect of Santana's year this season is his record on the road versus that at home. He entered Sunday with a 5-6 mark on the road and a 9-2 record at home.

Santana hasn't arrived at an answer for the discrepancy, but he took the mound Sunday with the idea of working quickly and not letting the A's guess as to what he might throw.

Over eight innings, Santana (15-8) allowed one run and just two hits while striking out two and issuing a pair of walks.

"I just wanted to pitch my game and do my best," Santana said. "I didn't think about them celebrating. I just thought about my game."

Santana threw just 97 pitches and left with a six-run lead, and Scioscia didn't see any reason to push his young starter, especially if the games in the upcoming week have meaning. By getting a scoreless inning of relief out of J.C. Romero in the ninth, Scioscia was also able to avoid using closer Francisco Rodriguez and setup man Scot Shields for the second straight day.

"The last couple of games it has been great to win two without using Scotty or Frankie," Scioscia said. "That hasn't happened enough for us this year."

Dan Haren (14-13) allowed six runs, five of which were earned, on seven hits with one strikeout to take the loss.

The Angels got on the board in the top of the third when Howie Kendrick singled to lead off the inning, and Figgins followed with a one-out single to put runners on the corners. Izturis then tripled to center field to score two runs, and Orlando Cabrera followed with an RBI groundout to second as the Angels took a 3-0 lead.

A three-run sixth helped the Angels cement their second straight win over the A's and take an edge in the season series, 8-7. Cabrera dumped a single to left and Guerrero jumped on a 1-0 pitch from Haren and drilled it to center for his 31st home run this season. Juan Rivera then reached third on a double into the right-field corner that was aided by Milton Bradley's error and scored on a sac fly by Adam Kennedy for a 6-0 Angels lead.

The A's broke through in the bottom of the sixth when Marco Scutaro led off the inning with a triple and scored on Mark Kotsay's ground ball.

"This is the way we go out and play," Figgins said. "We're going to go out and fight to the end to give us the shot to go out and fight a couple of more times in a couple or more games, which is great for some of the guys that have been here."






