
ARLINGTON -- Looking to add depth to the infield, the Angels recalled Robb Quinlan from Triple-A Salt Lake on Tuesday and designated outfielder Curtis Pride for assignment.

With Dallas McPherson sidelined by a sore left groin and Orlando Cabrera out with a right elbow strain, the Angels felt the infield is more critical.

"There is no coverage in the infield," manager Mike Scioscia said. "We have enough outfield coverage with the guys we have out there."

Steve Finley is currently out, but the Angels have Chone Figgins, Jeff DaVanon, Juan Rivera and Josh Paul as reserve outfield options.

Quinlan made the team out of Spring Training and ran into a catch-22 situation: He needed at-bats to find his swing, but he wasn't getting at-bats because he wasn't swinging the bat well. In 28 games, Quinlan hit just .172 with three RBIs and was sent down to the Minors.

In five games at Salt Lake, Quinlan hit .238 with one homer, but felt he found his stroke.

"I got some at-bats there and in the last couple of days I started to swing the bat better," Quinlan said.

He hit .344 in 56 games with the Angels last season and Scioscia had hoped Quinlan would solve the problem at designated hitter, at least from the right side, and back up McPherson at third base.

Aside from opening the season at third while McPherson was on the DL, Quinlan found it difficult to break into the lineup and his numbers suffered. When it came time, he understood the decision to send him down.

"You're always a little bit disappointed, but at this point I think it was best to get some at-bats," Quinlan said.

Pride, who appeared in five games with the Angels, cleared waivers and can accept the assignment to the Minors or become a free agent.

Date set: Kelvim Escobar will have surgery to shave a bone spur from his right elbow Wednesday. Team orthopedist Lewis Yocum will handle the procedure at the Kerlan-Jobe Clinic in Los Angeles.

Escobar is expected to be out eight weeks, but the right-hander said he will begin his rehab within five days.

Trainer's room: Finley is progressing through his rehab from a strained right shoulder and expects to swing a bat as early as Friday.

"It is definitely feeling good," Finley said. "The inflammation is out of there."

Finley is eligible to come off the disabled list on July 6, but is not putting a firm date on his return.

The report on Cabrera remains the same. The shortstop did not have a cortisone shot Tuesday and the team remains hopeful he'll miss just a few games.

"We're not going to get too excited about it until he starts throwing and comes out of that OK," Scioscia said.

Catcher Bengie Molina was out of the lineup again Tuesday as he recovers from a stomach virus. His brother, Jose, started behind the plate.

Top honors: Scioscia received five stars, earning the title Drama Queen by the Fort Worth Star-Telegram in a story about sports figures who are the "talk of the water cooler" and "beg for attention with outrageous statements and actions" at events.

Joining Scioscia as five-star winners were Giants slugger Barry Bonds, Eagles wide receiver Terrell Owens and Pistons coach Larry Brown. Yankees owner George Steinbrenner netted only three stars under the story with the headline "Drama Club."

Scioscia took it all in stride.

"I told [wife] Anne and she said I'm terrible at my dramatic side. I've been trying to act skinny for 30 years," Scioscia said. "Maybe I'm better than I thought."

A number of the sections were laid out in the Angels clubhouse encouraging players to sign the copies.

"I'm not a king," Scioscia said. "I'm a queen."

On deck: The Angels will play the third game of their four-game series with the Rangers on Wednesday at 5:05 p.m. PT. Right-hander John Lackey will face Texas right-hander Ricardo Rodriguez.






