
ANAHEIM -- Angels general manager Tony Reagins said after the Los Angeles' game Sunday against Texas that a trade for a middle infielder is "not likely," but added he would make a couple calls to see if any players were still available.



The Angels' depth in the middle infield has become a concern, with hamstring injuries to Howie Kendrick and Erick Aybar and a season-ending injury to shortstop Maicer Izturis.



The Angels only have until 9 p.m. PT on Sunday to add a player that would be eligible for the playoff roster. If they can't get a deal done by that time, they won't make a deal.



"If we can't add the player to the playoff roster, then we'll suck it up," Reagins said.



Several outlets reported the Angels have been in talks for various middle infielders such as San Francisco's Omar Vizquel, Baltimore's Juan Castro and Cleveland's Jamey Carroll, as well as one of three Toronto middle infielders -- former Angel David Eckstein, slick-fielding John McDonald and the versatile Marco Scutaro.

But Eckstein was traded to the D-backs during the Angels' game against the Rangers for pitching prospect Chad Beck, ending any hope Los Angeles would add the fan favorite.



"We talked to [Toronto] about several of their players," Reagins said. "We just couldn't get a deal together. Both sides have to agree in order to get something done, and that didn't happen."



The Angels are in the fortunate position of having a comfortable 17-game lead over the Rangers in the American League West, and don't have to make a desperate move to add depth.



"I don't think you ever want to act out of desperation," Reagins said. "How I look at it is if it improves the club and makes sense for us, we'll move forward. But if it doesn't, it's OK to say no and walk away. At the end of the day, we have to have the best interests of this club at heart."



Reagins was also confident that Kendrick and Aybar would return soon from their hamstring injuries.



"From the medical side, neither is what we experienced earlier in the year," Reagins said, referring to Kendrick's earlier hamstring strain that sidelined him for 42 games. "We feel comfortable they will be back in the middle of September to help us out."



If the Angels decide not to make a trade for a middle infielder, it means rookies Sean Rodriguez and Brandon Wood will continue to see time at second base and shortstop, respectively.



One sign of encouragement is that both players are starting to feel more comfortable at the plate, as Wood has five hits in his past seven at-bats and Rodriguez has three hits in his past three games.



Angels manager Mike Scioscia sounded ready to move on without making a trade.



"Right now, there's not a lot of looks that are going to move us ahead," Scioscia said. "Right now, we've got some guys who are going to get an opportunity."



Even though it doesn't look likely that the Angels will make a trade, they did make several roster moves after Sunday's game. Right-handed reliever Shane Loux was placed on the 15-day disabled list because he is having oral surgery on his mouth and infielder Kendry Morales was recalled from Triple-A Salt Lake to take Loux's spot on the roster.



The Angels also released right-handed reliever Alex Serrano, who was 2-0 with a 6.50 ERA in 14 relief appearances with Salt Lake.






