
ANAHEIM -- The Angels are without Vladimir Guerrero for at least the next two weeks, and unless their pitching staff puts together a monumental string of zeros, it could be a rough stretch.

The White Sox held the Angels to four hits and one run on Garret Anderson's two-out RBI double in the bottom of the third.

So even though Bartolo Colon and two relievers held the White Sox to a single run through 10 innings, their efforts were mere lines on a stat sheet as the club's lone run on the night meant a 2-1, 11-inning loss to square the four-game series at a game apiece.

After Brendan Donnelly and Scot Shields contributed three scoreless innings in relief of Colon, Tadahito Iguchi drilled an RBI double to split the left-center gap off Esteban Yan to score Joe Crede. The Angels then went in order to end the game, which was primarily the case in a well-pitched game on both sides.

Damaso Marte (3-3) picked up the win in relief; Yan (0-1) took the loss.

Mark Buehrle brought his 7-1 record into Angel Stadium and a string of 37 consecutive starts in which he's pitched at least six innings. The Chicago left-hander pushed it to 38 as he allowed one run over nine innings, requiring 119 pitches.

Colon knew it was going to be one of those nights against his former teammates and he was up to the task. His only blemish was a homer by Carl Everett in the top of the second inning. Otherwise, he did his job by posting zeros, while giving up just a pair of singles in addition to the homer.

"Since Saturday, Buehrle had been joking with me: 'Hey, Bart. Look out for me. I'm going to get you,' " Colon said through an interpreter.

Colon did not allow a baserunner until Everett went deep with two out on the ninth pitch of the at-bat. The White Sox put runners aboard with a single and a fielder's choice in the third, but Colon then retired a string of 12 straight batters before A.J. Pierzynski singled with two out in the seventh during an 11-pitch at-bat.

Buehrle worked the minimum through the first three innings, thanks in part to Juan Rivera getting caught in a rundown in the second after singling to center with one out for the Angels' first hit of the game.

Anderson's double got the Angels even in the fourth, but they could manage only one more base hit against Buehrle, a one-out single by Bengie Molina in the fourth. Their only two other baserunners were in the ninth, when Chone Figgins led off with a walk and Orlando Cabrera was walked intentionally after a sacrifice by Darin Erstad.

A pop fly by Anderson on the first pitch and a ground ball to first by Rivera that he nearly beat out ended the threat.

"I was able to keep up the tempo with him because I know him," Colon said.

Most agreed the game revolved around the performances of the two starters.

"We saw a pretty good pitchers' duel there," Shields said. "Both teams rely on good pitching and good defense."

Manager Mike Scioscia felt Colon did his part, but Buehrle held a greater share of the outcome with his effort.

"Buehrle is a guy who is not going to get into a bunch of deep counts. You have to take your opportunities and square up," Scioscia said. "Buehrle pitched a terrific game tonight."

And it was the offensive opportunities that were few and far between for the Angels, and the few were squandered. They left four runners on base, with two in scoring position and were 0-for-3 in such situations. Over the last six innings of the game, the Angels were 0-for-17.

"That has been an Achilles' heel through the year this year," Scioscia said of the offense. "Last night we did some things to put ourselves in a position to win and we didn't do that tonight."

Without Guerrero in the lineup for the fourth straight game, Scioscia again tinkered with the batting order to try to generate a spark. On Tuesday, he moved Cabrera up to the three-hole, a night after dropping him to eighth. Cabrera went 0-for-3 with an intentional walk.

"This was a loss of not being able to get a lead and hold a lead," Scioscia said. "We should have done something offensively. We're seeing some guys have better at-bats, but until we get some guys squaring up on balls, we don't really know how the pieces are going to fit."

Shields, who ran his streak of scoreless innings to 9 2/3 and who has allowed just three runs in 21 appearances this season, believes the bats will eventually break out.

"There is no doubt in my mind that we're going to bust out," Shields said. "Our offense is too good. We're a good hitting team."








