
ANAHEIM -- All systems are go for the return of Bartolo Colon to the Angels as
early as the second weekend in June.

Angels manager Mike Scioscia said that the reigning AL Cy Young Award
winner, who has been sidelined with right shoulder inflammation since April
16, will head out for a Minor League rehab assignment and is expected to rejoin the
Angels when they return home to face the Mariners on June 9-11.

Colon will pitch for Class A Rancho Cucamonga on Thursday, then is slated to start for Triple-A Salt Lake on Tuesday.

"He won't throw any more than 75 to 85 pitches," Scioscia said. "And if all goes well, he will come back with us and be ready to pitch over the weekend we get home
and be ready pitch against Seattle."

Scioscia was asked what Colon told him that gave the manager confidence that
he was ready.

"He threw very well in the simulated game on Saturday," said Scioscia. "His
stuff was good and the only question coming out of that was how was he going
to respond.  And he feels very good, and right now we don't see a total need
to have to do another simulated game. He's not going to get anything out of
that. He's ready to get in a game and play baseball. He'll be ready.

"Bart feels powerful, there is no inflammation. I think his
stamina is where you'd want it to be and where it needs to be. He needs to
get on the mound and get into a game and that's going to be the final pieces
of him pitching back up with us. ... Rehab starts, not simulated games."

Two new Weavers?  Now that younger brother Jered Weaver made a most
impressive Major League debut on Saturday, Jeff Weaver is hopeful that his
"new approach" will serve him well when he takes the mound Tuesday night
against the Twins.

"I've been trying to make too many adjustments mechanically," he said.
"In my last game I went back to trusting myself and just finding the right
tempo and the right intensity level."

Weaver (2-7, 6.99 ERA) allowed three runs to Texas on five hits
and two walks, striking out five, to pick up his first win since April 22. In that game he allowed a two-run home run to Brad Wilkerson and he nearly
jumped out of his skin.

As Scioscia noted, "After Wilkerson's home run, you saw
a junkyard dog where he was getting after it. He got his command, and you
saw everything pick up in his game. He got an edge and he just kept getting
after it."
Said Weaver: "Sometimes you have to remember your habits more than anything. Last game, I really remembered what I was supposed to be like out
there, especially after the home run.
"I thought that this wasn't the real me after the home run. I
looked to get back that fire I was missing. Why it didn't happen earlier, I
felt my demeanor was going well, but I was missing that internal fire. Now
it's there I will try to mix it in."

Weaver said he is not worried about his place in the Angels rotation: "I'm a
seven-year veteran and I know where my best position is and it's as a
starter."

Izturis on the move:  Infielder Maicer Izturis (strained left
hamstring) joined Salt Lake on Monday for what will likely be a brief rehab assignment. He will likely be activated from the DL on
Friday in Cleveland, the team said.

Izturis had a single in four at-bats and struck out once in Salt Lake's 8-6
loss to Las Vegas, which scored eight runs in the eighth. Dodgers closer Eric Gagne got the save for Las Vegas.
Speaking of  Las Vegas and the Dodgers, Izturis'  brother, Los Angeles shortstop
Cesar Izturis, will join the 51s in three or four days. His return
to the Dodgers is likely three weeks away.  Whether the Izturises will get a
chance to face one another in the continuation of the Freeway Series from June
30 to July 2 is up in the air.

Draft choice signs: Right-handed pitcher Sean O'Sullivan, the Angels' third-round pick in 2005, signed on Monday. O'Sullivan, 6-foot-2 and 205 pounds, pitched for Valhalla High in San Diego County.

 On deck: The Angels play the second game of their three-game series
with the Twins on Tuesday night at 7:05 p.m. PT. Jeff Weaver faces Minnesota right-hander Scott Baker (2-4, 5.48 ERA).






