
ARLINGTON -- As Chone Figgins goes, so does the Angels offense, and in the postseason a lot will be riding on his swift legs.

Not blessed with power throughout the lineup, the Angels look to run and stay aggressive, and it all starts with Figgins. The super-utility player, who now alternates mostly between center field and third base, leads the team in runs scored, hits and walks.

Figgins has also swiped 60 bags this season, trailing only Mickey Rivers in franchise history, who stole 70 bases in 1975. The stakes are ratcheted considerably higher in the playoffs, but Figgins said he's ready.

"It's exciting; I love to have that challenge," Figgins said. "It is something that I've been doing all year and I look forward to doing it in the playoffs."

Figgins has a total of two career stolen bases in the postseason, but struggled at the plate last year when the Angels were swept out of the first round by Boston. In three games, Figgins had just two hits and did not score a run.

But past performance aside, the Angels have no plans to alter their style and pull the reins on Figgins.

"It's more important in the postseason to put pressure on the pitcher and manufacture runs," manager Mike Scioscia said. "Just to say it's the playoffs doesn't make it any harder or easier. You have to look at matchups. That is always a part of the running game."

Figgins entered the final game of the regular season leading Scott Podsednik of the White Sox by one for the lead in stolen bases in the American League. Figgins has said that scoring 100 runs in a season is much more important than reaching a milestone in stolen bases, but he would welcome the recognition as the AL stolen base champ.

"Hopefully Podsednik doesn't run today," Figgins said. "It would be nice to have; I'm going for it."

Lineup card: Garret Anderson returned to designated hitter Sunday with Juan Rivera in left field. The Angels would prefer to have Anderson in the outfield and go with a right/left combination of Rivera and Casey Kotchman at DH in the playoffs, but it all depends on Anderson's availability to play the outfield.

Scioscia also said he is comfortable with the overall team defense, so he'll continue to use Steve Finley against right-handers with Figgins at third, and Robb Quinlan against left-handers with Figgins in center. Finley will likely draw late-inning defensive duty in center regardless of matchups.

Numbers game: Scot Shields won his 10th game Saturday, a career high. Shields also appeared in a club record 77 games this season. ... Brendan Donnelly established a career high with his 64th appearance Saturday. ... Figgins broke Johnnie Ray's 1988 mark of 184 hits in a season by an Angels switch-hitter with a single and a triple Saturday. ... Paul Byrd allowed 28 walks this season, a new club low.

On deck: The Angels will be opening the playoffs on Tuesday, but as play opened Sunday their opponent and location had yet be determined. The following scenarios are in effect.

If the Yankees lose Sunday and the Angels win, the Angels will host the Yankees. If the Yankees lose and the Angels lose, the Angels will open the playoffs in New York.

If the Yankees win and the Indians lose, the Angels will travel to New York. If the Yankees win and the Indians win, the Indians will travel to Boston for a one-game playoff. If the Red Sox win the one-game playoff, the Angels will travel to New York; if the Indians win that game the Angels will travel to Chicago.







