
ARLINGTON -- The game was familiar in more ways than one.

The final score, the opponent and the location were almost identical to a year ago, when the Angels won a pivotal game here. But there was one big difference Monday that essentially rendered the comparison meaningless.

"You are digging deep," Darin Erstad said, when asked if Monday's 7-6 win in 10 innings shared similar tones with an 8-7, 11-inning victory over the Rangers on their home field last season in late September. "That was last season. I'm not thinking about that. This is a whole new season."

It's a new season that is quickly gathering momentum toward highly competitive battles within their division, and specifically against the Rangers.

Erstad delivered a game-tying solo homer in the ninth off Rangers closer Francisco Cordero and Orlando Cabrera followed with a 10th-inning solo shot off R.A. Dickey to give the Angels a somewhat improbable 7-6 win over Texas to spoil the home opener at Ameriquest Field.

That makes four games against the Rangers in the season's first seven and all have been decided by a single run.

Two of the Angels' three wins against their rival have also come in their last at-bat and more than simply seizing upon some magic that may have been left over from a previous campaign, the club is slowly building the character and the accompanying confidence that is allowing them to believe they have juice to come back in games that otherwise appeared out of reach.

"It is a team full of guys that play good baseball," starting pitcher Jarrod Washburn said. "It is a great thing to be a part of."

Washburn was certainly pleased to refer to the rest of the players in the Angels clubhouse as teammates, following his outing Monday.

The left-hander took the hill for the second time this season, hoping to find the rhythm that he had in the spring and translate that into a win. But after Alfonso Soriano drove his third pitch into the left-field bleachers for his third home run of the season and Mark Teixeira hit an RBI single later in an inning that included a triple by Michael Young, Washburn knew he was looking at a long afternoon.

Washburn allowed two more homers, one to Rod Barajas in the fourth and another to Hank Blalock in the fifth, as the Rangers touched him for six runs on 12 hits and three walks. Counting heavily on fastball command to be effective, Washburn said he was unable to harness his money pitch all afternoon and could not find the inner half to right-handers.

"You make mistakes and a good lineup like that will make you pay," Washburn said.

He left after 5 1/3 innings, but that is also where the Rangers offense stalled. The Angels bullpen shut the door the rest of the way while the Texas 'pen began to teeter.

Steve Finley doubled and scored on a sac fly by Lou Merloni in the seventh and then the center fielder delivered the blow that put the Angels right back in the game. His two-run eighth-inning double pulled them within a run and gave full bloom to the thought that this was a winnable ballgame.

"When he hit that double that was a really important part of the game," Cabrera said. "His offense is really important."

Through seven innings, Rangers starter Kenny Rogers pitched to his reputation. The left-hander kept hitters off-balance, he got ground balls and rarely let the Angels square up on any pitch. But with Rogers gone, and the Rangers bullpen at less than full strength because of injuries, the Angels found their chance and capitalized.

Five relievers failed to close out what had been a four-run lead with Cordero, who converted 49 saves last year, coughing up the ninth-inning homer on a slider to Erstad. Cabrera then was on the money with his game-winning blast off Dickey in the 10th.

"This whole team is full of guys that can step up," Washburn said.

Cabrera, who has had a slow start at the plate for his new team, was glad to be a part of group he has long admired.

"That is what I like about this team, watching them on TV. They always come back," Cabrera said. "It is nice to be a part of that."

Fueling the comeback, too, was the bullpen with Chris Bootcheck contributing 1 2/3 scoreless innings on the very day he arrived from Triple-A Salt Lake.

"I didn't go out there and try to do too much," said Bootcheck, who made it to the ballpark about 20 minutes before game time. "I just went out there and threw strikes."

Bootcheck was called up Sunday night to replace Bret Prinz, who was put on the 15-day disabled list with a right shoulder strain.

"What Chris did was huge. Giving us some big outs when we really needed them," manager Mike Scioscia said. "For him to get off a plane and do what he did was impressive."

Scot Shields contributed two scoreless innings and Francisco Rodriguez pitched the 10th for his second save.








