
TEMPE, Ariz. -- John Lackey grins and shakes his head. The mere mention of Scot Shields evokes that kind of reaction.

"He is one of a kind," Lackey said. "There's nobody like him. He can pick up a ball and throw it over the fence without even warming up. He's just wild enough to worry guys. Everything he throws moves.












"It's like his two-seam fastball. He doesn't even have his hand on the seams. It's really a no-seam fastball. There's just nobody like him, man."

A strong case can be made that Shields is the best there is at what he does: take care of the eighth inning of Major League games. He'll also appear at times in the seventh and the ninth, but the eighth is his domain, his personal property.

That's how it was when Francisco Rodriguez owned the ninth for the Angels -- never ceasing to praise Shields for putting so many saves on a platter for him -- and that apparently is how it will be with Brian Fuentes taking over the ninth.

Shields, who has left the club to pitch for Team USA in the World Baseball Classic, always seems to be moving. Rarely is he seen sitting down for more than 30 seconds. He'll be up, going somewhere, doing something. He's a sports nut who likes his food fast.

This is not a man who seeks praise -- or even accepts it at times. He's about as self-effacing as professional athletes come.

Asked recently if the eighth inning isn't just as important as the ninth -- sometimes, when a threat must be quelled, even moreso -- Shields gave it some thought before delivering an honest response.

"There's one big difference," he said. "If I give it up, we've still got a chance to come back and win."

Shields rarely gives it up.

He has led the American League in holds with 31 each of the past three seasons but tosses that aside as "a stat that helps you make money."

He is the son of an athlete. His father, Mike, was a left-handed pitcher in the Twins organization from 1967-70.

There are some who would say son Scot is a lefty in a right-hander's body.

An athlete with a larger ego -- let's face it, just about anybody but Shields -- probably would have been a little offended if the ninth inning became available, as in the case with K-Rod's signing by the Mets, and it went to an outsider.

Shields? He embraces free-agent import Fuentes, a man he respects. No surprise there. Shields never showed the slightest trace of envy for the accolades bestowed upon K-Rod, who essentially performed the same function, just one inning later.

"I think everybody knows about his talent," Shields said of Fuentes, the southpaw who formerly worked for the Rockies.

"But one of his biggest attributes is his attitude. As a human being, he's going to fit in here -- in fact, he already has.

"There's definitely an intensity there with him. And his stats are pretty amazing."

What Shields accepts as relevant and meaningful in his file are the 425 innings he has pitched out of manager Mike Scioscia's bullpen since the start of the 2004 season -- the most by any reliever in the Majors over that span.

"Games [pitched], innings, all that stuff, I take pride in that," he said.

In spite of the enormous workload, Shields had never visited the disabled list before a strain in the underside of his left forearm surfaced last spring.

Teammates were shocked. They'd never seen him hurt before.

"I was not happy about starting the year on the DL," Shields said. "They were definitely trying to protect me."

He started throwing a little earlier than usual this winter, his heart set on wearing "USA" across his chest again.

Appearing in the inaugural Classic produced for Shields a storage chest full of memories, from the opening chords of a song that accompanied Padres ace Jake Peavy to the mound for Game 1 to the last out of Team USA's finale.

"Jake knows Brooks and Dunn," Shields said. "And when we took the field for the first time and they played, `Only in America,' I had chills."

Shields pitched superbly in the red, white and blue. He appeared in three games and worked 3 1/3 scoreless innings, giving up one hit and one walk while striking out two hitters.

That one hit was a big one -- a big little one, more precisely.

"They brought me in to replace Roger Clemens in our last game, against Mexico," Shields said. "They had a guy on third, one out, and Jorge Cantu was the hitter. It was the sixth inning, I think.

"He hit one of those swinging-bunt singles, and the run scored. We still had a chance to swing the bats and come back, but that was it for us."

Shields, in his unique fashion, treasures that memory.

"Coming in for Roger in the World Baseball Classic ... that's one of the most memorable things that's ever happened to me," Shields said.

"This time," he added, grinning, "I hope we get to play a little longer."






