
NEW YORK -- They meet Saturday night for the first time on hallowed ground, the Yankee Stadium pitching mound. John Lackey has the respect one would expect, Texan to Texan, with regard to the legendary Roger Clemens. 
Growing tall and strong and throwing with equal accuracy for Abilene High School's football and baseball teams, Lackey was as impressed with the Rocket's red glare as every other young and impressionable Texan.
It turns out, however, that Lackey was a natural-born Nolan Ryan man -- foreshadowing his own future in Anaheim, where Ryan began his transformation from inconsistent flamethrower to record-smashing strikeout king a generation before Clemens.
"I met Nolan Ryan once, when I was a kid," Lackey said. "He came to the college in Abilene one day for a function, and I got to meet him. We lived close to the Rangers, and my dad took me out to watch Nolan pitch in that old stadium."
Clemens and Lackey have never met, on or off the field. An All-Star for the first time in his sixth Major League season, Lackey is amazed by Clemens' "longevity and quality of pitching." 
The Rocket, seven times a Cy Young Award winner, is still going strong at 44, coming off a tremendous performance against Minnesota in winning the 350th game of his career.
"I'll be at the house by then -- hopefully on a ranch in Texas, never to be heard from again," Lackey said, asked if he could envision himself pitching in his 40s. "It takes a lot of work to go out every five days, to put in that many years and pitch as well as he has. That's pretty amazing."
Lackey delivered one of his finest efforts of the season at Yankee Stadium on May 27, holding the Bronx Bombers to two runs in eight innings. Francisco Rodriguez nailed down the final three outs in completing a three-game sweep for the Angels.
Lackey's focus is on his final start of the first half, leaving little time for him to think about his upcoming All-Star Game adventure in San Francisco.
The Angels' co-ace (with Kelvim Escobar), Lackey did find time to send text messages to good buddy Chris Young of the Padres, congratulating him on making the National League All-Star team on the Monster 2007 All-Star Final Vote, which eluded Escobar.
"I voted for Chris about 20 times when I voted for Eskie," Lackey said, grinning.Lackey and Young, the former Princeton basketball star from Dallas, have worked out together in the offseason and were teammates on a team of U.S. stars that toured Japan after the 2006 season.

 In praise of Escobar: Detroit's Jim Leyland, manager of the AL All-Star team, had this to say about Escobar's omission from the roster: "One of my favorite pitchers in the league -- I'm almost ashamed he's not on the team -- is Kelvim Escobar. He should be on the team. I couldn't get him on. I think he's one of the best pitchers in the league, without question. That's the way it goes. But the players vote was five starters and three relievers, and then the players had three more starters, and he wasn't one of them. I put him on the [Final Vote] list also, if nothing else, to let him know.

"He's got great stuff. He's a competitor. He's in control all the time. This guy's really good. He's one of the best in the league, in my opinion."

 Holding pattern: Scot Shields, the setup artist, leads the AL in holds with 20. This puts him ahead of his 2006 pace, when he led the AL with 31.
Shields hasn't allowed a run in his past 17 outings, covering 20 innings. The Angels are 34-5 when Shields appears in a box score, putting him right on course for another season of 75-80 appearances.
Remarkably durable, he set the club record for appearances in 2005 with 78, and he came back with 74 last season. Since the start of the 2004 season, he has pitched more innings -- 326 1/3 -- than any reliever in the Majors, striking out 332 hitters.
"I just want the ball," Shields said, having no explanation for his resilience.
When he signed his four-year contract on March 29, Shields said he was happy in his role setting up for Rodriguez, and would be happy to spend the balance of his career in that spot. He just wants the ball -- and he also wants to win.

 Kendrick sits: Howie Kendrick's left hand keeps getting in the way of a terrific season. First he fractured the middle finger on a pitch from the A's Chad Gaudin on April 17, costing him 32 games, and the second baseman missed his second start on Friday since straining the left index finger taking a swing in Texas on Tuesday night.
"It was my second at-bat, a 2-0 pitch, and as I swung through, my [batting] glove got caught and stuck on the bat handle," Kendrick said. "I played the rest of that game and the next game, but it was bothering me."
Taking advantage of his first start since May 20, Maicer Izturis doubled and tripled, driving in two key runs in Thursday night's victory. Izturis was back at second on Friday night against Yankees southpaw Andy Pettitte, carrying a .379 average from the right side, compared to .197 as a left-handed hitter.
Kendrick is expected to be ready to play on Saturday.

 Numbers game: Through Thursday, the Angels have outscored the opposition by 36 runs (69-36) in the first inning, a sign of a team that comes prepared to play. They're 29-6 when they score in the first inning. ... Anchored by Shields and Rodriguez, the Angels have won 120 straight games when leading after eight innings, the longest such streak in the Majors. ... Twelve of Vlad Guerrero's 14 homers and 62 of his 75 RBIs have come during victories, and the Angels are 31-6 when Gary Matthews Jr. scores a run, against 21-22 when he doesn't score. 

 On deck: Lackey (11-5, 3.04 ERA) engages Clemens (2-3, 4.26) on Saturday at 12:55 p.m. PT.






