
ANAHEIM -- Jeff DaVanon broke up Jeff Weaver's no-hit bid and then nearly re-broke his nose in the process.

After singling to center under the glove of Dodgers second baseman Jeff Kent in the fifth for the Angels' first hit of the night, DaVanon stole second and promptly took a swipe of the glove from Kent that slammed the bill of his helmet across the bridge of his nose as Kent attempted to field the throw from catcher Jason Phillips.

The designated hitter took a few moments to ensure that everything was in place. Confident that he did not suffer further injury to the nose he fractured when he ran into the right-field wall in Atlanta on June 8, DaVanon waved off manager Mike Scioscia and assistant athletic trainer Adam Nevala. He then scored when Adam Kennedy flared a single to left.

"It hurt," DaVanon said. "You're not supposed to rub it, but I did. I couldn't help it."

What DaVanon did help, though, was his team's cause. He went 2-for-4 and scored two runs on the night. Garret Anderson and Dallas McPherson both went deep to back a strong outing by John Lackey as the Angels opened their Interleague cross-town rivalry series against the Dodgers with a 7-0 shutout.

DaVanon also reached on an error in the eighth and credits a swing change that has produced better at-bats in recent games.

"I was wrapping my bat a lot," DaVanon said. "[Hitting coach] Mickey [Hatcher] simplified some things a bit. If you try and hit home runs you're not going to break out of any slumps. So I concentrate on the line drives."

It was the fourth consecutive win, and sixth in their last seven games, for the Halos, who, coupled with the Rangers' loss to Houston on Friday, have quietly built a 5 1/2 game lead in the American League West.

A combination of the bottom of the order for the Angels, and his own defense, or lack thereof, led to Weaver's tough night.

The Dodgers starter had sailed through four perfect innings, and was on his way to five frames with nary a blemish when McPherson lifted a Major League pop fly with two out. Dodgers third baseman Antonio Perez drifted over but stopped, leaving Cesar Izturis to recover and lock in on the rapidly descending ball.

Izturis could not and the ball ticked off his glove, falling for an error with McPherson reaching second and scoring on DaVanon's single as the Angels mounted a two-out rally with a pair of unearned runs.

"That's a tough sky, especially at 8 o'clock," McPherson said. "Luckily that ball fell and I was able to get to second base. After that we started seeing some pitches."

McPherson's three-run shot to straightaway center off Dodgers reliever Franquelis Osoria in the bottom of the eighth was his seventh of the season and put the game away. The rookie third baseman has six homers and 20 RBIs in his last 22 games.

Lackey didn't require much offense, however, as he employed a free and easy motion Friday night to hold the Dodgers scoreless.

The big right-hander was as comfortable with a 77-mph changeup as he was a 94-mph fastball. A change in his delivery that Lackey worked on this spring with pitching coach Bud Black and has perfected through the season's first half has him using a shorter stride and a taller profile on the mound.

"The stride has been a big key for me," Lackey said, who was backed by a scoreless inning each from relievers Scot Shields and Brendan Donnelly. "Buddy and I have been working on that during bullpen sessions. It helps my consistency, and that has been the key."

The motion, while appearing the same, helps create a sharper distinction between his fastball and change. Lackey struck out nine on the night and four times ended innings with a punch out.

Lackey improved to 6-2 and hasn't lost since May 9, when the Angels were shut out by the Indians, 3-0. He's also whittled an ERA that had ballooned to 8.22 on April 17 after allowing seven runs in a loss at Oakland down to 3.50 with seven solid innings against the Dodgers.

His mechanics have been refined, but his mental approach has also been sharpened. Following that loss to the A's, Lackey had a closed-door meeting with Scioscia and Black on April 18 at Angel Stadium. The discussion basically was a challenge, more or less, for the young budding star to live up to his potential.

"He was very receptive," Scioscia said. "Buddy and I hit him with some pretty straight stuff and he responded."

Lackey admitted that the tough love was needed.

"It definitely helped," Lackey said. "I've been able to realize tough spots that make the difference in the game. I can recognize game-changing situations."

In the sixth, Anderson drilled a solo home run, while Adam Kennedy went 2-for-3 Friday with a double and two RBIs to extend his hitting streak to a career-high tying 12 games.

Weaver (6-7) allowed four runs, two of which were earned, on five hits and a walk to take the loss.






