
ANAHEIM -- Infielder Chone Figgins wasn't in the lineup on Sunday afternoon, but it wasn't because of his recent struggles at the plate.

According to manager Mike Scioscia, Figgins had a scheduled day off, and Scioscia also wanted to get Maicer Izturis some plate appearances.

When asked about Figgins' recent woes, Scioscia said his third basemen would rediscover his stroke and regain his confidence.

Figgins, who is hitting .108 (6-for-65) with three doubles and three RBIs since coming off the disabled list on April 30, said he has to realize things aren't just going to fall into place right away.

"I mean, being that I'm a competitor, I like stuff to happen right away," Figgins said. "But I've been out for a month, and I have to realize it's going to take time. I can't try to make up a whole month in one at-bat every time."

Figgins fractured the tips of two fingers on his right hand in Spring Training and felt discomfort early in his comeback. But he said the hand is feeling better and he just has to continue to do the things that have made him successful in his four-plus seasons with the Angels.

Since being called up to the Major Leagues in 2002, Figgins has hit .279 with an on-base percentage of .340, so the feeling around the organization is that he will find away out of this funk.

"This is baseball, things happen in different ways, and they happen for a reason -- to keep you competitive and to keep you going," Figgins said.

Scheduled day off: Scioscia announced that first basemen Shea Hillenbrand and catcher Mike Napoli had scheduled days off on Sunday because of the day game after a night game.

Hillenbrand is batting .237 with one home run and 13 RBIs in 34 games this season and Napoli, who hit his third homer of the season in Saturday night's win, is hitting .239 with three homers and eight RBIs in 28 games.



Complete coverage &gt;  


Anderson update: Left fielder Garret Anderson, who suffered a torn right hip flexor tendon running out a ground ball against White Sox on April 27, is making progress and might be available to DH within a week.

"He ran in the outfield, and he's feeling much better," said Scioscia. "I don't think Garret is going to settle into a full DH role, but it is something were considering."

Anderson was hitting .265 with one home run and 10 RBIs when he suffered the injury.

Willits willing his way: Rookie Reggie Willits has hit safely in 14 of 15 and 24 of his last 26 games and is batting .381 in that span.

Currently, the left fielder leads all Major League rookies in average (.366) and stolen bases (10). He also ranks second among rookies with a .448 on-base percentage and 20 runs scored.

Cruise control in Freeway Series: The Angels have won their last four games against the Dodgers and are 13-3 in the last 16 games against the Dodgers at Angel Stadium.

Under Scioscia, the Angels are 27-17 in the Freeway Series and currently lead the series, 32-16.

Coming up: The Angels have an off-day before traveling to Detroit on Tuesday to open a three-game series at Comerica Park against the defending American League champions at 4:05 p.m. PT. John Lackey (6-3, 2.43 ERA) will take on Mike Maroth (3-0, 4.69 ERA).






