
ANAHEIM -- On Sept. 1, when Major League rosters can be expanded to accommodate an infusion of organizational talent, the Angels expect to make a few additions but don't figure to do anything on a major scale in the fashion of non-contenders giving youngsters valuable exposure.

Before Friday night's game against the Twins, manager Mike Scioscia outlined his primary needs as a third catcher and accurate arms for the bullpen.

"We certainly want to add some depth at the catching end to get more versatility," Scioscia said. "We can also expand our pitching roster. If there's an immediate need, a player can be here the next day [after Sept. 1]."

The Triple-A Salt Lake Bees have a handful of position players with Major League experience, headed by left-side infielder Brandon Wood, corner infielder Matt Brown, outfielders Terry Evans and Dee Brown and catcher Ryan Budde.

Another catcher, Bobby Wilson, is the most likely candidate to grace the roster on Sept. 1 in support of Jeff Mathis and Mike Napoli. Wilson is batting .333 with a .407 on-base percentage and is regarded as a quality defender. Wilson is back in the lineup after recovering from a broken thumb.

The competition for pitching roles is deep and impressive.

Sidearmer Darren O'Day, who pitched capably in 27 appearances for the Angels with a 4.34 ERA, is a prominent candidate to be recalled along with Dustin Moseley and Chris Bootcheck, important pieces in long relief last season. Moseley and Bootcheck have recovered from arm issues and have had some solid efforts recently, Scioscia said.

Jason Bulger, another Salt Lake reliever with Major League experience, has put together eye-popping numbers in the Pacific Coast League. The hard-throwing right-hander is 4-0 with 15 saves and a 0.66 ERA in 41 innings, striking out 72 while walking 20.

Another right-hander reliever, Kevin Jepsen, has divided the season between Salt Lake and Double-A Arkansas and contributed handsomely to Team USA's efforts in the Beijing Olympics.

Wood has been on fire since the All-Star break, raising his average to .299 with a team-high 29 homers and 79 RBIs while cutting down on his strikeouts. He would provide depth along with Sean Rodriguez behind young shortstop Erick Aybar.

Matt Brown, who enhanced his reputation with some clutch hitting for Team USA in Beijing, is expected to stay with Salt Lake through the postseason along with Wood.

"Rather than have a guy come and sit for six or seven days and there's no need, with [Salt Lake] in the playoffs, it makes sense to play in those playoff games," Scioscia said.

Versatile Freddy Sandoval and Adam Pavkovich are enjoying breakout seasons at Salt Lake along with outfielder Bradley Coon. Sandoval (.329, team-high 80 RBIs), Pavkovich (.280, 22 homers, 77 RBIs) and Coon (.316, .416 on-base percentage) are cogs in the offense.

Reggie Willits, playing for Class A Rancho Cucamonga in his return from a concussion, is eligible to come off the 15-day disabled list on Sunday. That likely would return first baseman Kendry Morales to Salt Lake, adding more firepower to the Bees' lineup for the PCL playoffs.






