
The Angels had a title on their minds all season, and it wasn't that of a novel to keep them occupied during the offseason.

It was that of World Series champion, but a four-game stretch in October laid waste to their dreams.

Fortunately for the Angels, dropping four straight to the White Sox in the American League Championship Series merely exposed the one weakness they knew about all along and will lead to some offseason refurbishing. To paraphrase Roy Scheider's character in "Jaws," they need a bigger bat.

Specifically, one to occupy the slot in the bat rack next to that of Vladimir Guerrero, who for most of the season was a big-fly man working in a lineup of singles hitters.

Aside from the occasional boost from Garret Anderson or Bengie Molina, Guerrero was the lone warrior who could strike fear in the opposition. When injuries and the grind of a long season wore him down at the worst time for a team that was thinking ring, opposing pitchers went right after him and no one was left to pick up the slack.

And so it was the Sox playing the part of the great white, running the storyline four-deep in a succession of complete games by their starters as they chewed through the Angels bats and spit out the pieces to the tune of a .175 batting average.

"In some ways it was a successful season, but we didn't get what we wanted; we wanted a world championship," general manager Bill Stoneman said. "But we got beat by a better team."

It is a hard reality to swallow, certainly, especially for a team that accomplished so much in 2005, but these Angels are not content with division crowns.

"That trophy is mighty lonely up there," Angels owner Arte Moreno said at the outset of this postseason about the 2002 World Series crown.

The Angels successfully defended their AL West title this season, winning consecutive division championships for the first time in franchise history, while also heading to the postseason in back-to-back years for the first time.

They broke quickly from the gate, too, winning on Opening Day with Bartolo Colon on the hill and tying Seattle for first place in the AL West. The club would taste second place for only 11 days the rest of the year: during two three-day stints behind Texas in late May and early June and one- and four-day stretches behind Oakland in August.

The A's also forged a tie in the division on Sept. 15, but the Angels ran off 14 wins in their last 16 games to take the AL West, clinching for the second straight year at McAfee Coliseum.

The Halos won 95 games on the year, but they never quite displayed the knockout punch. Instead, they were forced to clutch and weave as the offense struggled for most of the season.

"There were many times during the year where we couldn't establish our offensive continuity," manager Mike Scioscia said. "That hurt us."

Last winter saw the departure of two big bats in the lineup, as Troy Glaus left through free agency and Jose Guillen was traded to the Nationals for Juan Rivera and Maicer Izturis.

Their replacements could not fill the power void. Dallas McPherson took over at third base, but injuries limited the rookie to 61 games and eight homers. Steve Finley signed a two-year deal to handle the chores in center field and supply some pop in the lineup, but a shoulder injury and a disappointing second half reduced him to a part-time player.




&#149; Season in review
&#149; Pitching powers Angels in 2005
&#149; Second half photo gallery 



With slugging not an option, Scioscia emphasized his aggressive motion style, eventually installing Chone Figgins as the leadoff hitter in early May -- and he took off, literally. The indispensable Figgins led the Majors with 62 stolen bases and the team with 113 runs scored.

Putting a fine point on his most-valuable status with the club, Figgins started at six different positions in 2005 and also spent some time at designated hitter. His teammates voted him and Colon as co-MVPs for the year.

The club fell from a league-high .282 batting average in 2004, matching the Red Sox, to a .270 mark that was sixth-best in the AL. But the glue that held the team together and got it to the postseason was the pitching, specifically the starters.

Colon led the league in wins, posting a 21-8 record, and he was followed by John Lackey's 14-5 mark. Lackey's new-found command of his changeup and ability to channel his emotions led him to his most consistent year as an Angel.

Newcomer Paul Byrd went 12-11, while Jarrod Washburn overcame poor run support in the first half and forearm tendinitis in the second half for an 8-8 record. Washburn registered a 3.20 ERA, the fourth-lowest in the AL.

Injuries also sideswiped Kelvim Escobar, who went to the disabled list three times and eventually had surgery June 29 to shave a bone spur and remove bone chips from his right elbow. But Escobar returned in September and was the difference in the bullpen's resurgence. He will be back in the rotation next season.

Ervin Santana capably filled the fifth spot in Escobar's absence. The rookie went 12-8, with wins that included a shutout of the White Sox on May 23 and three straight clinching performances.

Santana was the starting pitcher in Oakland when the Angels won the AL West, and he was the starter in Texas when they clinched home-field advantage in the first round of the playoffs. Santana also took over for Colon, who left with a right shoulder strain, and helped the Angels eliminate the Yankees in Game 5 of the American League Division Series.

But in the ALCS, the pitching could only take them so far. The offense struggled, prompting Stoneman to say that adding a bat will be a top agenda item this winter.

And while it was a step short, it was a performance that strengthened a team's desire to win.

"The pitching is what kept us in games, but if you're not hitting, you're not going to win," said shortstop Orlando Cabrera, who turned in Gold Glove-caliber defense for the Angels in 2005. "In the playoffs, we just couldn't get it done. I think we had a great season. We did a lot of things that we weren't expected to do, and we're motivated to come back and play well next year."






