
ANAHEIM -- Even though the Angels couldn't make a trade for middle-infield depth before Sunday night's deadline, they did add depth to their bullpen and the catcher position on Tuesday with rosters expanding to 40 players for the last month of the season.

The Angels recalled three familiar faces from Triple-A Salt Lake -- relief pitchers Darren O'Day and Dustin Moseley and catcher Ryan Budde -- all of whom have seen action with the Angels this season.

The Angels are expected to recall more players from Salt Lake soon to fill their 40-man roster, but the Bees are set to begin the playoffs after winning their third consecutive Pacific North Division crown.

"It is going to be the best fit as far as what we need," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said on Saturday. "There are certainly needs we have and certainly some experience to be gained in going through the playoffs down in Triple-A, so it is going to be the best fit for all of us."

O'Day, who was on the team's Opening Day roster, has seen the most action in the Majors this season as he made 27 relief appearances, going 0-1 with a 4.34 ERA. But he was last optioned to Salt Lake on Aug. 4, after allowing seven earned runs over his last four appearances.

O'Day pitched well with the Bees after being sent down as he went 1-1 with three saves in 11 appearances in August. Overall, the right-hander was 2-2 with seven saves and a 3.27 ERA in 21 games.

Moseley also made the team out of Spring Training. The right-hander made five starts in April, but went 1-2 with a 7.32 ERA and was demoted to the bullpen. Moseley was then placed on the 15-day disabled list with a sore forearm on May 4 before returning on July 13 for one start.

Moseley made the most of the start, as he allowed two runs on four hits over 5 1/3 innings against Oakland in place of Joe Saunders, whose wife was having a baby. Moseley didn't earn a decision, but the Angels won.

Moseley is expected to pitch out of the bullpen in September, but could see action as a spot starter down the stretch. Moseley was 7-10 with a 6.94 ERA in 20 starts with Salt Lake.

Budde saw action with the Angels in July when Mike Napoli was on the disabled list, but went 0-for-2 at the plate, while seeing action in six games. He hit .202 with two homers and 23 RBIs in 48 games with the Bees, but brings a solid presence behind the plate defensively.






