
On the heels of a career year, Angels right-hander Kelvim Escobar is not expected to be in the rotation when the club opens its season in Minnesota.

Escobar experienced right shoulder discomfort throwing before Christmas, felt more pain two weeks later when he tested it again, and notified management. He is rehabbing the shoulder at the club's Tempe, Ariz., facility.

A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed no significant changes in the shoulder, cause for optimism that he can return to top form in his No. 2 spot in the rotation, behind All-Star John Lackey.

Angels manager Mike Scioscia said it is "doubtful [Escobar] will be ready to start the season" but is hopeful treatments will have the Venezuelan back in the rotation before too long. "You can't rush it," Scisocia added.

Deep in starters with the arrival of Jon Garland from the White Sox, the Angels plan to open their American League West title defense with Ervin Santana and Joe Saunders both in the rotation. They had been expected to compete for the fifth slot in the rotation.

Pain surfaced in Escobar's shoulder in the final month of the season, hampering his performance after he'd thrust himself into Cy Young Award conversations with a superb season. It was a recurrence of shoulder irritation that had forced him to the disabled list from April 9-23.

Despite missing two starts in April and another in September, Escobar registered a career-high 18 wins with only seven losses for a .720 winning percentage.

"We are moving forward cautiously with Kelvim," Angels general manager Tony Reagins said.  "We are hopeful that the shoulder irritation dissipates during his rehab."

Escobar, 31, is expected to participate in limited baseball activities when he reports to camp next week. Pitchers and catchers are scheduled to report on Feb. 14, with the first full workout set for the following day.

Escobar finished with a 3.40 ERA in 30 starts after allowing 21 earned runs in 23 2/3 innings in September for a 7.99 ERA. He still managed to go 3-1 in five starts.

"I've always been a second-half pitcher," Escobar said at the time. "I haven't been able to throw as freely with some pain in the shoulder."

In his career, Escobar is 52-41 in the second half with a 3.74 ERA compared to 49-49 in the first half with a 4.55 ERA.

The Angels have the luxury of six proven Major League starters. They opened last season with two starters -- Bartolo Colon and Jered Weaver -- sidelined by injuries. Saunders and Dustin Moseley both performed capably, Moseley moving to middle relief and Saunders to Triple-A Salt Lake when Colon and Weaver returned.

Saunders returned in the second half and joined the rotation when Santana faltered. Moseley returns as a spot starter and middle reliever.







