
TEMPE, Ariz. -- When Mike Scioscia talks about lineup "groupings," the Angels' manager is referring to the interactions of three sections: the first-third, middle- and bottom-third of his batting order.

There will be some experimentation with groupings over the course of Cactus League play, but Scioscia has a good feel for where his Angels will hit, health permitting.











As for Wednesday's spring opener against the White Sox, read nothing into a lineup Scioscia weighted with players bound for the World Baseball Classic.

When they start to play for keeps, the first-third figures to be formed by Chone Figgins, newly acquired Bobby Abreu and Vladimir Guerrero: lightning, patience and thunder.

The middle-third likely will stack up with Torii Hunter in the cleanup spot followed by Kendry Morales and Juan Rivera: power and production.

Moving to the bottom-third, we're likely to find Howie Kendrick, Mike Napoli or Jeff Mathis and Maicer Izturis or Erick Aybar: hit machine, power and speed.

There will be variations and alternations along the way -- Napoli could jump several spots, and Robb Quinlan might get platoon at-bats at first against lefties -- but that is how it shapes up at the moment.

Abreu, a No. 3 hitter most of his career with the Phillies and Yankees, said he anticipates no significant adjustment moving up a slot to hit between Figgins and Guerrero.

"No big deal," he said, adding that after 13 years in the Majors, there is very little he hasn't seen and that he'll take the same approach to the No. 2 hole, relying on his uncommon discipline.

Scioscia values Abreu's ability to get deep in counts and hit with two strikes, enabling Figgins to measure pitcher's moves and get good breaks from first.

"I like having our three best on-base [percentage] guys in those first three spots," Scioscia said. "Bobby Abreu and Vlad are swing guys who are going to set the table and drive in runs. Whoever is hitting behind Bobby Abreu and Vlad, that's a terrific spot for RBIs. Hopefully, he'll have a lot of ducks on the pond."

If he's that man, Hunter is primed to clean up.

"I hit fourth and fifth with the Twins," the center fielder said. "We had Joe Mauer and Justin Morneau, and I had guys on a lot. I had 107 RBIs in my last year in Minnesota, in 2007, and 102 RBIs in 2003."

Given the career on-base percentages of Figgins (.356), Abreu (.405) and Guerrero (.389) and their shared love of running the bases, Hunter could have a lot of movement in front of him.

"Those guys can steal bases, go first to third, first to home ... that's going to be fun to watch," Hunter said.

Over the past three seasons, Hunter has had 338 at-bats from the cleanup spot, hitting .308 with a .380 on-base percentage and .447 slugging percentage, delivering eight homers and 48 RBIs.

He has hit for lower batting averages (.268, .299) but higher slugging percentages (.490,.559) from the fifth and sixth slots, respectively, with substantially more at-bats.

Morales, a switch-hitter, is the preferred No. 5 hitter. His left-handed bat would break up a run of right-handed swingers that won't end until the No. 9 hole with switch-hitters Aybar and Izturis.

"The guys in the middle of the order should get a lot of RBI opportunities," Scioscia said. "We think we have some pretty good batter's box offense in those spots."

Rivera, who figures to claim a lot of at-bats in the designated hitter role, was highly productive in the second half last season (nine homers, 34 RBIs in 170 at-bats) with his first extended playing time since breaking his left leg in the spring of 2006.

As for the bottom third, Kendrick, a .306 career hitter who tattoos the gaps with line drives, sets the grouping in motion if he's in the No. 7 spot.

Napoli, who can jump as high as fourth when he's in a groove, brings power and discipline to any spot in the order. Jeff Mathis is looking to significantly upgrade his .194 average while retaining his ability to go deep and hit with runners in scoring position (.278).

The underrated ninth spot provides in effect a double-leadoff dynamic with Figgins.

If Aybar or Izturis reaches safely and Figgins advances the runner, Abreu -- a man with at least 100 RBIs in six straight seasons -- knows how to deliver.

Abreu could move down to No. 3, with Guerrero hitting fourth, or into a run-producing spot in the middle third.

For that to happen, Kendrick, Aybar or Izturis would need to demonstrate the selectivity required of a quality No. 2 hitter.

"Bobby is one of the few guys in the game capable of scoring 100 runs and driving in 100," Scioscia said. "He can hit in a lot of spots and be effective."

The Angels were a middle-of-the-pack offense in 2008 statistically, averaging 4.72 runs (compared to a 4.78 league average) with a .743 team on-base-plus-slugging pct., which was slightly below the .755 league average.

They have in essence replaced Garret Anderson with Abreu and Casey Kotchman/Mark Teixeira with Morales, while anticipating healthier, more productive seasons from Figgins, Kendrick, Napoli, Rivera, Aybar, Gary Matthews Jr. and Reggie Willits.

There also are wild cards such as left-side infielder Brandon Wood, who stands ready to answer with power and production should opportunities arise.

"I'm comfortable with our lineup," Scioscia said. "I think we'll be deep and get good batter's box production. I'm excited to see what these guys can do."






