
ANAHEIM -- The first two rounds in the Battle for Los Angeles go decisively on all scorecards to the Angels.
Going on the attack again, the Angels used all their weapons, schemes and devices in support of the strong right arm of Jered Weaver to wrestle a 6-2 decision from the Dodgers on Saturday night in the second installment of Interleague Play at Angel Stadium.
A record crowd for the renovated ballpark (since 1998) of 44,380 was alive from start to finish, savoring a game that was tight and taut until the Angels -- as they had in the first game of the series -- erupted late, this time with three sixth-inning runs to gain the upper hand.
"It's a little different when you have half the crowd rooting for an L.A. team -- and the other half rooting for the other L.A. team," Weaver said through a winner's smile. "But I liked it. Great atmosphere."
The game ended with Angels shortstop Orlando Cabrera flashing his Gold Glove-caliber leather tracking down a sharp grounder headed for center field by Rafael Furcal and flipping backhanded to Erick Aybar for the force at second.
Even though it was not a save situation, Francisco Rodriguez was asked by manager Mike Scioscia to get the last three outs after Scot Shields had backed up Weaver's 6 2/3 innings with four outs of scoreless relief.
"If you're a baseball fan," Angels center fielder Gary Matthews Jr. said, "this is definitely a series you want to check out. Even if you're not a fan, you can come catch the  buzz of the crowd, the enthusiasm, the banter back and forth with the fans.
"This is how people become lifelong baseball fans. They remember that one game where they caught the bug."
Manufacturing runs in the first and fifth innings around a Mike Napoli homer in the second, the Angels watched Weaver tenaciously protect the lead through six superb innings.
The eruption came in the bottom of the sixth, starting with Vladimir Guerrero's first hit of the series, a single to right. Matthews crushed a double to right-center, and Robb Quinlan punched a hit to left that became a hustle double, cashing in two runs.


Complete coverage &gt;  

Shea Hillenbrand's line-drive single to left -- his sixth hit in 14 at-bats -- brought home Quinlan for a four-run cushion.
An in-game video tribute to Scioscia caused the manager to "turn four shades of red," as he put it, an appropriate reference for a guy who no longer bleeds Dodger blue.
What also warmed his baseball soul was the aggressive, dynamic feel to his offense, taking the game back to his roots.
"They're tough," Scioscia said of the National League West leaders. "You have to play well to beat them. Obviously, we've done things our club needs to do.
"Offensively, there's much more chemistry going on than at any time this year."
It starts at the top, he pointed out, with Reggie Willits and Cabrera setting the table for Guerrero, Matthews and the collection of bats behind them -- a group that will be fortified before long by the returns of Garret Anderson and Howie Kendrick.
"Any time you have your one-two guys getting on base, it opens up the offense," said Matthews, who has the uncommon perspective of a man who has hit first, third, fourth and fifth in the order this season. "The way we run the bases, it really forces teams to make plays they don't want to make or are unaccustomed to making."
Willits' leadoff single after Weaver mowed down the Dodgers in order led to yet another first-inning run for the Angels. They are 18-3 when they score in the first, having outscored the opposition 47-15 in those 21 first innings.
Cabrera walked after Willits' hit, and the shortstop's hard slide into second on Guerrero's grounder might have contributed to Jeff Kent bouncing a throw past first baseman Nomar Garciaparra, Kent's error allowing the alert Willits to score from second.
Kent and Napoli traded homers in the second, and the Angels reclaimed a two-run lead in the fifth against losing pitcher Mark Hendrickson (2-1). Napoli walked, steamed to third on Erick Aybar's perfectly executed run-and-hit single to right and scored when Chone Figgins bounced into a double play.
Weaver left runners in scoring position in the third and fourth innings, retiring nine in a row when a double by Mike Lieberthal after a pair of strikeouts in the seventh convinced Scioscia that 106 pitches were enough.
"He was getting tired and had to work harder for outs," Scioscia said of Weaver, who moved to 3-3 with 6 2/3 innings of five-hit, two-run pitching, striking out six.
Shields and K-Rod took care of the rest, and the Angels, having outscored the Dodgers by 15-3 in two games, go for the sweep -- and territorial bragging rights -- on Sunday behind Kelvim Escobar, who faces Derek Lowe.






