
TEMPE, Ariz. -- Facing a Brewers lineup featuring some familiar names and dangerous weapons, right-hander Nick Adenhart came up with a strong showing on Saturday to keep alive his hopes of making the Angels' rotation.

"We've still got some work to be done before we make that decision," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said following a 4-4 draw at Tempe Diablo Stadium. "But he's certainly a candidate. He's still in the running, sure."











Adenhart, 22, yielded one earned run on four hits and a walk in five innings, striking out six men. His best pitch was a big-bending curveball, although he did catch Prince Fielder looking at one well-placed inside fastball.

"I was keeping it tight with two strikes," Adenhart said of the curveball. "I'm trying to hit the back of the plate with it, and I had a good feel for it. It was a good punchout pitch.

"I threw three or four changeups, but it was mostly fastballs and curveballs."

Asked if the effort, lowering his Cactus League ERA to 4.05, was his best of the spring, Adenhart said, "Yeah, one of the better ones."

One pitch he regretted was a high fastball that Brad Nelson sent to left-center for a two-out RBI double in the fourth, after Corey Hart had doubled leading off.

"I did a pretty good job with the next two hitters," Adenhart said, referring to striking out Fielder and Bill Hall, "and then I left one up when I was trying to go down and away."

Scioscia thought Adenhart "lost command of his fastball early but regained it and finished strong. That's a big part of the game for a young pitcher, to find something when you need it. He pitched well."

Veteran right-handers Dustin Moseley and Shane Loux are contending with Adenhart for two rotation slots vacated by Ervin Santana (sprained right elbow) and Kelvim Escobar (recovering from shoulder surgery).

Adenhart had a strong showing last spring but struggled in three starts with the Angels and then didn't get into a good rhythm for Triple-A Salt Lake until the final month of the season.

"Nick worked his butt off this winter," Scioscia said. "He felt what happened last year was a half-step backward. He's really impressed us this spring.

"He's much further along than at any time last year in Spring Training. The numbers were good, but his stuff wasn't as crisp."






