
BALTIMORE -- Call it a sweet homecoming, if you will. Joe Saunders would likely prefer to just call it a victory -- his 13th of the season.

Making his second career start just a stone's throw away from where he grew up in Springfield, Va., Saunders watched his offense beat up on Orioles pitcher Brian Burres through the first two innings and used a five-run lead to his advantage, escaping with a 6-5 victory on Friday night, the Angels' sixth win in seven games since the All-Star break.

"Early runs helped Joe to relax and make some pitches," said manager Mike Scioscia. "But those guys just kept coming. We had to hold on with everything we had."

With much of his family watching, Saunders, who admitted that the victory was a little sweeter knowing he had fans in the stands, certainly allowed things to get interesting, but came away with the win nonetheless. The left-hander's worries were likely eased after the Angels put up five runs in the first two innings, via a two-run double by Torii Hunter and a second-inning leadoff homer by Juan Rivera followed by a two-run shot by Casey Kotchman.

"I have a lot of family and friends here, and it's nice to be able to go out there and show them what I can do," Saunders said. "I gave out a bunch of tickets, all my close friends -- either from high school or since little league -- so it's nice to have that support system.

"It was tough there in that last inning, the bottom of the seventh. I made some good pitches. They hurt me when I made a mistake."

Until that seventh inning, the lone blemish on Saunders' scorecard was a home run surrendered to Orioles first baseman Kevin Millar to lead off the third inning. At that point, however, all the homer did was cut the Angels lead to four -- a sizeable advantage for the young hurler to work with.

The lead ended up being just large enough when the Orioles came back in the seventh by plating three runs. After loading the bases, Saunders allowed a two-out, two-run double to left fielder Jay Payton, cutting the lead to 5-3. Saunders was unable to get out of the inning, pulled after a passed ball allowed Millar to score from third with the O's fourth run.

"That pitch to Payton, that was a good pitch -- he just stayed inside it and drove it into the gap. Tip your cap and move on," Saunders said. "I was just trying to hold the lead and get us through as long as I could, but I struggled there in the seventh."

Luckily for Saunders, reliever Scot Shields was up for the task, striking out Brian Roberts with three pitches to end the inning.

"I hit my spot right there," Shields said. "It was a good pitch down and away and he's a good hitter, so you kind of might want to waste one there, but I was throwing as hard as I could and I ended up throwing to the right spot."

It was as clutch a performance as the Angels' could have asked out of Shields, who came back out to pitch the eighth inning. It wasn't necessarily smooth sailing from there, however, as the Orioles mounted another comeback in the ninth. Francisco Rodriguez came in for his Major League-leading 43rd save, and allowed a two-out solo home run by Millar and a double by Brandon Fahey. But Rodriguez buckled down and induced Luke Scott into a game-ending grounder to first base.

"We know that they will fight back," Shields said. "Once we got that early lead, you can't give up on them, because like they showed, they were one hit away from tying it up. Their lineup's great. We're lucky enough that we were able to hold off."

The Angels made quick work of Burres, knocking him out of the game after just 1 2/3 innings, but couldn't get much going after the left-hander exited. They were, however, able to tack on a milestone -- as well as insurance -- in the eighth. With an RBI single to left field, Garret Anderson picked up career hit No. 2,300, driving in Vladimir Guerrero with what proved to be the Angels' winning run.

"You want to score as many runs as you can anywhere you play, but this ballpark can become a hitter's park at times," Scioscia said. "The six runs were important. I think Garret's hit was big at the time and ended up being bigger as the game moved on."






