
 CUBS 7, ANGELS 5 
at Tempe, Ariz. 
Wednesday, March 26

 Cubs at the plate: With three singles, an RBI and two steals, Felix Pie continued his sizzling spring. Ronny Cedeno singled and had a two-run double during the five-run seventh inning. Daryle Ward, Ryan Theriot and Alfonso Soriano all had RBI singles, along with Pie. 

 Angels at the plate: Left fielder Dee Brown, a non-roster veteran signed for Triple-A Salt Lake, powered an opposite-field three-run homer on a 1-2 pitch by Carlos Zambrano in the second inning. Robb Quinlan produced three singles, driving in a run. 

 Cubs on the mound: In his first appearance since being named the closer, Kerry Wood retired all five men he faced, striking out the last two, in his longest outing of the spring. Opening Day starter Zambrano, who'd given up only one earned run in 15 previous Cactus League innings, was touched for four earned runs on four hits in four innings, striking out five while walking one. Bobby Howry pitched a scoreless fifth inning, giving up a bunt single.

 Angels on the mound: Jered Weaver's superlative spring in preparation for his likely Opening Day assignment came to a close with six innings. He yielded one earned run on six hits and no walks while striking out five. Francisco Rodriguez had his first rough outing of the spring, giving up five earned runs on four hits and a walk while striking out two men, the only outs he got. Justin Speier gave up his first hit -- and baserunner -- on a two-out Luis Figueroa single in the eighth, extending his string of scoreless innings to six.

 Cactus League records: Cubs 14-14; Angels 18-8. 

 Up next for Angels: There will be split-squad games in Tempe and in Anaheim for the Angels on Thursday, highlighted by a brief version of the Freeway Series in Anaheim. Jon Garland is scheduled to face Dodgers right-hander Derek Lowe at Angel Stadium at 7:05 p.m. PT in a game televised by FSNW. Right-hander Nick Green, ticketed for Triple-A Salt Lake, will face left-hander Mark Redman of the Rockies at 12:05 p.m. PT in the spring finale at Tempe Diablo Stadium.

 Up next for Cubs: An array of Minor Leaguers will take the mound for the Cubs when they face the Brewers on Thursday in Mesa at 2:05 p.m. CT. on WGN TV and radio. The team is breaking camp and heading for Las Vegas, where they'll face the Mariners on Friday with Ted Lilly pitching.







