
ANAHEIM -- The Angels announced during Monday's game that Paul Byrd would not make his scheduled start Tuesday due to back spasms. There's only one wrinkle -- Byrd feels just fine.

"I feel good now," Byrd said. "I had some stiffness in Seattle .... [but] I was playing catch this afternoon and I felt 100 percent."

Angels manager Mike Scioscia said after Monday's game that Byrd would probably not have been scratched from his start if the Angels were in the final weeks of the season, but that in mid-August, more precaution was in order.

"We wanted to give Paul a couple extra days to get rid of some stiffness," Scioscia said. "If it's September, in the middle of a pennant race, Paul probably makes his start tomorrow."

If it were up to Byrd, he'd make his start on Tuesday just the same, but the Angels have already recalled left-hander Joe Saunders from Triple-A Salt Lake and sent down third catcher Jeff Mathis. While Byrd might be disappointed about missing his start, he's not angry about it.

"It's my fault; I had poor communication," Byrd said. "They were looking out for my best interests, and I appreciate that."

Scioscia said that he wasn't sure if Byrd would rejoin the rotation in a day or two or if he would wait until Byrd's turn comes up again on Sunday.

In Byrd's place, Saunders will make his Major League debut. The 2002 first-round draft pick was 3-3 with a 3.46 ERA in six starts at Triple-A, after going 8-4 with a 3.49 ERA in 18 Double-A starts.

"Joe's put together a great run this year," Scioscia said. "He's ready for this challenge."

Escobar impresses: Kelvim Escobar threw batting practice prior to Monday's game, with encouraging results. The right-hander, out since June 10 after undergoing elbow surgery, threw all of his pitches effectively during an eight-minute session.

"There's some rough edges any pitcher would go through at this stage," Scioscia said, "but I'll tell you what, his arm looks good. He threw some pitches with good velocity; his pitches came out of his hand well."

Escobar, who threw a 17-minute bullpen session Friday in Seattle with no ill effects, is scheduled to throw a simulated game on Thursday or Friday.

"If he does well there, we'd look to send him out on a rehab [assignment] sometime next week," Scioscia said.

The plan is to stretch Escobar out so that he could join the starting rotation if injury or nonperformance opened a spot. Otherwise, the Angels might use him strictly out of the bullpen.

For Escobar, the hard part isn't dealing with the uncertainty of his role with the Angels down the stretch, but rather coping with the long layoff from competition. Batting-practice foes Jeff DaVanon, Steve Finley and Mathis were the first hitters he's faced since his surgery.

"I had never been on the DL this long," Escobar said. "It's hard, but at the same time, you have to tell yourself that things happen for the best. ... When your time comes, be ready for it."

Escobar, who's been on and off the disabled list twice this season, knows how many rehab starts he will need to be ready.

"I think three games," he said. "First game, you go 45-50 pitches; the second game, you go 65-70 pitches; the third game, you go 90-100 pitches. That's what I've done when I've been on the DL."

If Escobar began a rehab assignment next week and followed that schedule, he'd return to the Angels during the week after Labor Day. Whenever he returns, though, the Angels will be glad to have him.

"He was a big part of what we did last year," Scioscia said, "and when he's healthy, you know what kind of pitcher he is."

Dallas delayed: Third baseman Dallas McPherson, who tweaked his back Thursday while on a rehab assignment with Salt Lake, was examined by Dr. Robert Watkins in Los Angeles on Monday.

"He was getting some stiffness that he thought was in his back, but it turns out it was more in his hip," Scioscia said. "He's gonna be shut down for a little bit ... [to] let it calm down and see where he is."

Scioscia said there was no current indication on how long
McPherson might need to recover from the stiffness.

"It's a setback, absolutely," he said.

McPherson underwent a battery of diagnostics on Monday, the results of which will not be available until Tuesday.

Anderson still ailing: Garret Anderson, who's been slowed by a sore back and patellar tendinitis in his left knee, was held out of Monday's lineup. When he returns, it will initially be as a designated hitter, to minimize the amount of stress put on the afflicted areas.

"He's much better [than Sunday], but he's not quite ready to go out there and do what he needs to do," Scioscia said. "We're looking at [Tuesday], at the earliest."

A family affair: With a left-hander (Gustavo Chacin) pitching against the Angels on Monday, Bengie Molina started at designated hitter, while his brother, Jose Molina, started behind the plate.

"Any chance we can get to keep Bengie fresh, we're gonna take advantage," Scioscia said. "Jose's been swinging well against left-handers."

Jose Molina has seven RBIs in his last seven starts, while Bengie Molina has 59 homers as a catcher in his career -- two short of tying Lance Parrish for the franchise record for backstops.

Killer B's: Trevor Bell, the Angels' first pick in the 2005 draft, made his debut on Sunday for the Rookie League Angels. The right-hander struck out three in two innings, allowing one hit.

For Salt Lake, Chris Bootcheck allowed two runs in six innings, striking out eight, to earn his fifth win.

On deck: Saunders will face Toronto southpaw Scott Downs (1-2, 5.02 ERA) on Tuesday at 7:05 p.m. PT.






