
ANAHEIM -- With the Angels facing southpaw Kenny Rogers on Wednesday, manager Mike Scioscia shook up his batting order.

Chone Figgins moved up to second and Juan Rivera took over as designated hitter in the five hole. Orlando Cabrera moved up to sixth, Steve Finley slid to seventh and Robb Quinlan moved down to ninth.

"We're going to look for some chemistry," Scioscia said. "We need to see what we can do against lefties. We didn't see much of them this spring. Anytime you have Q hitting ninth, I think you're going to be productive."

The Angels didn't exactly struggle against lefties last season, hitting .272, but he's looking for a way to provide protection for Garret Anderson in the cleanup spot. Wednesday's alignment follows Anderson with a pair of right-handers.

"Two guys that we have confidence in are Rivera and Cabrera," Scioscia said. "They have the ability to be productive."

Finley, who is in his 17th big league season, has hit in most spots in the order throughout his career and simply rolls with the adjustment.

"He's going to put the best lineup out there he can every night," Finley said. "This is a team. It's not about individuals."

With Finley in the seven-hole, Scioscia also maintains the option to create some offense at the bottom of the order.

"Fins has some situational ability in him," Scioscia said. "When the hits aren't falling in, he is still able to bring in that situational ability to be a part of the offense."

Hardware presentation: It was awards night Wednesday as no fewer than four Angels were handed their postseason awards for last season.

Francisco Rodriguez was given his Setup Man of the Year award as named by MLB.com. Rodriguez posted a 4-1 mark in 2004 with a 1.82 ERA and 12 saves in 69 appearances. He held opponents to a .172 batting average and registered 123 strikeouts in 84 innings.

Vladimir Guerrero was given both his American League MVP award and his Silver Slugger award. Guerrero hit .337 with 39 homers, 39 doubles and 126 RBIs. It was his first MVP and fourth Silver Slugger.

Darin Erstad and Finley both received their Gold Glove awards. Erstad was honored for his third Gold Glove and first as a first baseman. Erstad won his first two as the Angels' center fielder. Finley won his fifth Gold Glove, playing center field last year for the Diamondbacks and Dodgers.

New sheriff: Rodriguez is the Angels' new man in the ninth to maintain order and close out ballgames as the replacement for Troy Percival. The right-hander came into this season with 14 Major League saves to his credit but none as the official closer.

There was little suspense as Rodriguez was handed his first save opportunity in Tuesday's season opener. With 10 pitches, Rodriguez dispatched the Rangers.

"The first appearance for anyone who is trying to assume a new role is difficult because all the focus is on you," Scioscia said. "You get out there, get your feet wet and keep moving on."

All for one: Guerrero garners a tremendous amount of attention, and for good reason. He displayed his MVP skills in the Angels' 3-2 win in the season opener with two RBIs and six total bases.

But the 29-year-old Dominican does not see himself as the main man in the lineup.

"Each player is capable of doing their job," Guerrero said. "One day it will be one player and the next day it will be someone else."

Winning formula: Maicer Izturis made the big league ballclub out of Spring Training as a reserve infielder, but he brings a pair of tools that will get him a lot of playing time, especially in tight ballgames: speed and solid defense.

Izturis pinch-ran for Quinlan on Tuesday after the third baseman doubled in the seventh inning. He scored and then remained in the game at third. Scioscia said he won't be shy to go with Izturis, who can also play short and second, in similar situations to help protect leads.








