
TORONTO -- As Wednesday's 9 p.m. PT deadline approached, the Angels had not signed right-handed pitcher Matt Harvey, the 118th overall pick taken in the third round of the First-Year Player Draft. From all indications, Harvey was bound for the University of North Carolina.

"The offer we've made is very generous for a guy drafted [118th]," general manager Bill Stoneman said on Wednesday night. "We haven't signed him. You'd like a pleasant surprise, but not necessarily expect it."

A 6-foot-4, 210-pound product of R.E. Fitch High School in Groton, Conn., Harvey is represented by Scott Boras. Ranked among the premier prep products available, Harvey fell in the Draft when word circulated that it would take a $2 million bonus to sign him.

The Angels used their first pick -- No. 58 overall in the supplemental round -- on another right-handed flamethrower, Jon Bachanov. He signed on July 13.

Bachanov, from University High School in Orlando, Fla., has drawn comparisons with Angels ace John Lackey in his style and attitude. Bachanov is on a rehabilitation program after experiencing a tender elbow.

"We think it's smart to go easy with him," Stoneman said. "Similar things have happened with too many guys in the past."

Before the Draft, Baseball America had Harvey ranked 11th overall and seventh among all pitchers -- higher than Bachanov. Harvey is a power arm with a high upside.

"He was the highest guy on our board when our pick came up," Stoneman said.

But the front office didn't sound optimistic about reeling in Harvey in the afterglow of the June Draft.

"Not good," scouting director Eddie Bane said when asked about the prospects of signing Harvey, adding that the club will make every effort to come to an agreement by the deadline.

 Outfielder signs: The Angels did complete a late-round signing when Terrell Alliman, from Waterloo, Ont., came to terms. The 43rd round pick met Gary Matthews Jr. and Garret Anderson before Wednesday night's game, beaming as he addressed his desire to someday join them in the Angels' outfield.

"I'm a center fielder, but I'll play anywhere they want me," Alliman, 18, said. "I'm a good runner, with a strong arm, and I hit for average and power. It's exciting. I can't wait for next spring when I come to [Minor League] camp in Arizona."

Montreal-based Alex Messier scouted and recommended Alliman, who was drafted by Milwaukee in 2006, but returned to school in Waterloo and went back in the 2007 Draft.

"He's gotten a little stronger, so the extra year was good for him," Messier said of the 6-foot-3, 185-pound Alliman. "He's had good statistics in good competition, with a loose arm and good speed. His bat's going to bring him up. He's a good athlete, and he can hit."


Colon passes test: Bartolo Colon took a significant stride in his efforts to rejoin the rotation with 46 pitches, fastballs, breaking balls and changeups, in a Wednesday bullpen session described as "good, very good" by pitching coach Mike Butcher.

"He's cleaned up a lot of things in his delivery," Butcher said of Colon, recovering from an elbow impingement. "I'm very happy with his progression. He's finding a spot where he can follow through, get through his pitches. He has a tendency to recoil. He's cleaned up a little of his front side, which give s him a chance to repeat a healthy delivery."

The aim is to get Colon ready by the end of August when playoff rosters are set. He plans to expand to 60 pitches in his next session with the likelihood of several rehab assignments if all goes well.

"The last game he pitched [before going on the disabled list on July 24], he wasn't able to finish pitches," Butcher said. "When you try to manipulate the ball, you start falling into some bad habits. He has a lot of pride. He wants to win. We know he can help us. He's always been 'El Caballo,' the horse. He looks good."


Kendrick, Rivera report: Second baseman Howie Kendrick singled and scored a run in four at-bats in Triple-A Salt Lake's 5-4 win over Tucson on Tuesday. Kendrick, recovering from a broken left index finger, handled six chances in the field without an error, turning one double play. Catcher Bobby Wilson homered and doubled, raising his average to .341 with a .598 slugging percentage in 25 games.

Playing right field for Class A Rancho Cucamonga, Juan Rivera singled and scored a run in three at-bats, handling two chances with the glove. Rivera could be among the Sept. 1 callups, providing a right-handed threat off the bench.


On Aug. 15 in Angels history: Bobby Bonds stole home in a 7-4 win at Toronto in 1977, and Chuck Finley struck out four men in one inning for the second time in his career at Detroit in 1999.


Up next: Kelvim Escobar (12-6, 2.74) faces Blue Jays right-hander Dustin McGowan (8-6, 4.12) in Thursday's series finale at 4:07 p.m. PT.






