
BOSTON -- Throw Mike Scioscia out of the game and the offense jumps to life, or so it would seem.

The Angels manager was tossed in the top of the seventh inning Saturday afternoon with his team trailing by a pair of runs.

Undaunted and thoroughly emboldened, Scioscia's club responded to their boss being ejected for the first time this season with 11 runs to race to a 13-6 win over the Red Sox, their first in Fenway since May 17, 2003, to break a nine-game losing streak at the venerable ballpark.

"I guess I got out of the way," Scioscia said of being thrown out for arguing a called third strike on Chone Figgins.

Getting out of the way were a number of frustrating aspects that had come to characterize the Angels over the last couple of weeks.

The offense had sputtered through the first two months of the season while the pitching staff held the line and kept the team leaning more heavily toward the win column. As the bats came alive, though, the bullpen began to take on water, squandering leads in somewhat alien fashion.

But in a game that appeared frighteningly familiar for the Angels, the club suddenly pivoted, getting 11 of their 17 hits after the ejection, including Garret Anderson's three-run, go-ahead homer that made him the franchise career leader in RBIs, passing Tim Salmon.

"It doesn't mean a whole lot. A lot of those guys [I passed] played on the Angels for a long time," Anderson said, who was a double shy of the cycle and had four RBIs in the game. "I've just been fortunate to be here for my whole career. That is what it means."

Darin Erstad, who also drove in four runs, feels Anderson has been the cornerstone of the franchise for years.

"The guy is an RBI machine," Erstad said. "It doesn't surprise me one bit."

Adam Kennedy opened the seventh by doubling to left. With Figgins down, 0-2, Kennedy stole third, but home-plate umpire Bill Hohn called strike three, and Scioscia and the Angels' bench took exception. Hohn first warned Scioscia and then ejected him. Scioscia came out to argue briefly before leaving for the visitors' clubhouse.

"Umpires are not going to be perfect," Scioscia said. "I just thought the call to Figgy was out of the realm of possibility."

Erstad followed with an RBI single to score Kennedy and Steve Finley singled. On a 2-2 pitch from Red Sox reliever Alan Embree, Anderson hit his three-run homer.



Driving 'em homeAngels at Red Sox, June 4, 2005
Darin Erstad, Steve Finley  and Garret Anderson combined for nine of the game's hits, five of its runs and 10 of its RBIs. Their lines:
 ABRH3BHRRBI
Erstad623004
Finley622102
Anderson614114
Totals18592110
Anderson increased his season RBI total to 44 and career total to 991, through June 4. He now has 214 homers in his career.


The Angels added another run in the eighth when Kennedy hit his second double of the game and again scored on a single by Erstad. Six runs in the ninth broke open a close game when Red Sox reliever Matt Mantei gave up four runs on a hit and three walks. Erstad knocked in two runs in the inning, Finley tripled in one and Anderson reached career RBI No. 991 with a base hit.

After being near the bottom of the American League in a number of offensive categories, the Angels have found their stroke. Over the last eight games, the Angels are hitting .462 and averaging 8.13 runs scored.

"There is no sugar-coating our trials and tribulations on the offensive side. We've been grossly underachieving," Scioscia said. "The last few days, you can see what we're able to do."

The bullpen stepped up with some key relief with the game still on the line. Brendan Donnelly pitched a scoreless seventh inning while Scot Shields overcame a leadoff homer to Kevin Millar to escape any further damage.

Their clutch relief preserved a win for starting pitcher Bartolo Colon, whose efforts were mostly a footnote by game's end. Colon struggled early but persevered to hang for six innings. The right-hander gave up three runs, five hits and a walk as the Red Sox sent nine men to the plate in the bottom of the second. But Colon (7-3) settled down to strike out a season-high 11, allowing a total of five runs on 10 hits.

"I had to work really hard," Colon said, who went mostly with a four-seam fastball when he couldn't find the break with his two-seamer. "I kept telling myself to keep it close. The way our offense has been lately, I just felt I would be OK if I kept it close."






