
KANSAS CITY -- It is all in front of the Angels if they are going to continue their season beyond Oct. 1.

After completing a two-game series Wednesday night with the Royals and an off-day on Thursday, the Angels open a three-game series on Friday at American League West-leading Oakland. The division's top two teams also conclude the regular season with four games, beginning Sept. 28, at Angel Stadium.

"We need to play well," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "The best chance to meet this challenge is just to go game to game, the way we've been doing to get back into this. We've got good matchups on the mound for us. They've got good matchups on the mound for them.

"It is going to be a heck of a series. You can't look past a pitch. You can't look past an inning. You need your focus to bring the game the way you need it to have an opportunity to get on that run that we need to get on.

"For us, the team we have to catch, we're playing after [Wednesday], seven out of the next 10 games, so we're going to have a chance."

For the Angels to have a chance to win the division after being 11 games below .500 on May 22 and nine games below .500 (31-40) on June 20 demonstrates just how well they have played for an extended period. The Angels went 19-7 in July, 16-13 in August and are 11-6 in their first 17 games in September.

"The fact of where we were and to get back here to now, having an opportunity I think speaks volumes of the character of this team and the guys in that clubhouse," Scioscia said. "How they've kept grinding it out. But now that you have the opportunity, you certainly want to take advantage of it. The only way we're going to take advantage of it is to play good baseball. That's what we need to do."

Pitching in September: This time last year, Jered Weaver was finished pitching, the Minor League seasons being over.

Weaver pitched a total of 76 innings in 15 starts with Class A Rancho Cucamonga and Double-A Arkansas in 2005.

This year, Weaver has pitched 185 2/3 innings in 28 starts between the Angels and Triple-A Salt Lake.

"It is uncharted waters, obviously," Weaver said. "I've never thrown this deep. I already had my little setback with the tendinitis [of the biceps, missing a July 17 start]. Everything feels strong now. I'm feeling good. I don't see it as a burden down toward the end of the season.

"Obviously you feel a little wear on your body, but there is nothing wrong with the arm. I think it is just a matter of staying focused and staying mentally strong through the last two or three starts you've got.

"You just have to fight through the tiredness, having to fight through a tough situation where we're still in the playoff hunt. It is wearing on me a little bit, but I still feel good when I'm out there."

Weaver, who starts Friday at Oakland, said the mental part can be more taxing than the physical.

"Especially down towards the end of the season, I'm finding that out," Weaver said. "Your body is tired, but at the same time you've still got to battle and stay focused. I've been able to do that and feel like I should be able to do that toward the end of the season."

Weaver is 11-2 with a 2.15 ERA with the Angels.

"So far it has been a good ride," Weaver said. "Hopefully it can continue down these last few starts."

Scioscia believes Weaver should be a strong candidate for the AL Rookie of the Year.

"I think it has been incredible what Jered has come up and done," Scioscia said. "I haven't researched it that far. For what he has done and the way he has been instrumental in our club getting back into this race, he's got be at the top or near the top of the list. I don't know all the other candidates. I just know what he's done for us. There are a lot of candidates, but I just know Jered should get a lot of consideration for that award."

Izturis sits: Third baseman Maicer Izturis, who is hitting .222 on this road trip, was not in the starting lineup on Wednesday.

"Maicer is available," Scioscia said. "He has battled some hamstring stiffness over the last couple of weeks. We have an opportunity right now with the day off tomorrow to get him ready for a strong finish."

Upcoming: Weaver and A's left-hander Barry Zito (16-9, 3.91 ERA) are the pitching probables for the first game of a weekend series, a 7:05 p.m. PT start Friday.






