
MINNEAPOLIS -- Defense never takes a day off, as they say, and the Angels are going to continue to ride that tenet as a cornerstone of their ballclub.

Three solid defensive plays behind starter Paul Byrd and another perfect effort by the bullpen coalesced into a 3-2 win over the Twins on Friday as the Angels grabbed the second straight in the series.

Bengie Molina gunned down would-be base stealer Shannon Stewart in the top of the eighth and Darin Erstad made a strong throw to the plate in the sixth that resulted in Stewart getting caught in a rundown, but no play was bigger than the one Steve Finley made to lead off the bottom of the fourth.

Finley ran full speed into the center-field wall and robbed Joe Mauer of a home run with the score tied at 1.

But none of the plays should come as a great surprise. Between the three of them are 10 Gold Glove awards, and the three of them also drove in all three Angels runs.

"Defense should be a constant all the time," said Finley, who is the proud owner of five of the awards that honor the best defensive player at each position in both leagues.

Finley gave part of the credit to the ballpark itself. While the Metrodome is often criticized for being one of the remaining few fields with artificial turf, Finley said the outfield wall is a plus when it comes to making plays.

"It's a lot like the wall in San Diego," Finley said of the Padres' former home at Qualcomm Stadium. "It feels like a trampoline. You can catch more because you can go full speed."

Finley said he played Mauer the opposite way, but because of the wall he felt he had a chance. Despite returning from the disabled list Thursday with a right shoulder strain, he tracked the drive all the way into his glove.

"Finley's play was the defensive play of the game," manager Mike Scioscia said. "It saved a run."

In the sixth, Erstad alertly came home with a throw on a chopper by Justin Morneau. The Twins had cut their deficit to a run when Luis Rodriguez led off the inning with a base hit and came home on Stewart's double. After a ground ball advanced Stewart to third, Byrd walked Mauer.

Erstad then prevented the Twins from tying the game.

"It was a 'tweener," Scioscia said. "If it's a bullet, you can fire to second and get it back for the double play. If it's slow you know you have to come home. You don't want to get caught trying to make the double play and only get one and let then score. He made the right play."

In the eighth, it was Molina's turn to flash his Gold Glove form after Angels reliever Scot Shields walked Stewart to open the inning. Stewart broke for second, but Molina threw the ball on a string that required second baseman Adam Kennedy to merely apply the tag on the sliding Twins left fielder.

"It is teamwork in that aspect," Molina said, crediting Shields for his motion to the plate. "The pitcher has to be quick and the throw has to be there."

The beneficiary on Friday was Byrd, who allowed just two runs on four hits and a walk over seven innings to pick up the win.

The right-hander did not allow a hit until Rodriguez hit a one-out double in the bottom of the third. After Stewart drove in the Twins' first run, Byrd retired seven in a row before running into trouble in the sixth. He faced six batters, allowing a pair of hits and a walk, but escaped with one run. Byrd then came back to allow just a two-out double in the seventh.

"You expect to hear the pitchers in the bullpen when you start to fall apart," Byrd said. "I'm glad Scioscia stuck with me."

Molina got the Angels on the board with an RBI double in the top of the fourth that scored Erstad. The Angels grabbed the lead in the sixth when Chone Figgins led off with a single, stole second and came home on an RBI single by Erstad. Finley then plated Erstad with a sac fly to provide Byrd and the bullpen with enough cushion.

But Byrd (9-5) feels the play in the field was the bigger difference.

"I thought we made some good defensive plays that helped us win the ballgame," Byrd said. "I may be a little biased, but I think pitching and defense wins championships."







