
ARLINGTON -- Tim Salmon got one last trip around the park.

Playing in his last game at Ameriquest Field, Salmon homered in his final at-bat on the Rangers' home field and to add one last special touch, his mom Billie Randall and other family members were able to witness the blast firsthand.

But like Chone Figgins' cycle a night earlier, it was an individual achievement that was shrouded in the dark clouds of an 8-1 loss to the Rangers, and it wasn't just the rain that made for a gloomy afternoon.

The Angels squandered a number of scoring opportunities to strand eight baserunners and go 1-for-8 with runners in scoring position while also committing an error, as the Rangers gained a split by winning the final two games of the series. The Halos are now 37-39 in games in which they are charged with at least one error.

With the loss, the Angels saw their number for elimination in the American League Wild Card race reduced to five with a victory by the Twins and seven in the AL West Division race, as the A's defeated the White Sox on Sunday.

So, while the team flies to Kansas City where it will have an off-day on Monday before playing the last 12 games of the season, 10 of which will be within the division and seven of those against the A's, Salmon can put some positive spin on what has become his farewell tour.

"I'm kinda amazed. My last swing in Texas, one of my favorite places, in front of my mom -- it's fitting," Salmon said. "I'm pretty pleased about that."

That it came in Texas was not a surprise and certainly not to Salmon.

The 14-year pro has hit 18 homers here, which is second only to his home park in Anaheim. Salmon's .378 batting average also ranks fifth among active players at Ameriquest Field. Teammate Vladimir Guerrero is tops with a .420 average, followed by Magglio Ordonez (.407), Nomar Garciaparra (.392) and Ken Griffey Jr. (.382).

It was Salmon's eighth home run of the season and 298th of his career, leaving him two shy of 300, which would provide a fitting end for a career that includes a Rookie of the Year Award and a World Series ring.

But getting Salmon to the 300-homer mark would require playing time and, aside from a pinch-hitting appearance in Saturday's 12-6 loss, Salmon has only four other at-bats in September. His home run on Sunday was one of four the Angels hit in the four-game series against the Rangers, but Salmon is not likely to get at-bats except against left-handers, despite the fact the team needs offensive production.

"We'll see what options there are," manager Mike Scioscia said. "We're searching for offense. Against lefties, Tim might give us a lift."

As the season has progressed, Salmon's playing time has been reduced. He had 146 at-bats prior to the All-Star break, but has had just 45 since. He's mostly accepted his role and understands there could be very few opportunities left at the end of his baseball career.

"It might look easy, but it isn't that easy. It has to be a perfect storm when you come off the bench and hope the pitcher makes a mistake," Salmon said of hitting a pinch-hit homer. "If one swing could do that, that would be great. But I see the bigger picture. If I can contribute, I'll do whatever I can."

The Rangers didn't jump out to a four-run lead in the first as they did on Saturday, but they chipped away at Ervin Santana (14-8) and chased the second-year right-hander after five innings.

Michael Young singled in a run in the bottom of the third, and Miguel Ojeda doubled home a pair in the fourth. A sac fly by Mark Teixeira in the fifth ended Santana's afternoon after allowing four runs on seven hits and two walks to take the loss.

"[The rain] bothered me a little bit, because all the balls were wet and I couldn't grip a couple of pitches, but that is not an excuse," Santana said.

The bullpen also surrendered four runs, as Gary Matthews Jr. drilled a two-run shot off Hector Carrasco and Ian Kinsler added a two-run homer off Greg Jones in the eighth.

Only Salmon's ninth-inning blast prevented the Angels from suffering their eighth shutout of the season. It was a day when they had their chances, but Vicente Padilla (14-9) kept them quiet over 7 1/3 scoreless innings to pick up the win.

Adam Kennedy doubled to lead off the fifth, but was thrown out when he inexplicably broke for third. Robb Quinlan followed with a single, but Jose Molina bounced into an inning-ending double play.

Then, in the seventh, the Angels loaded the bases on Garret Anderson's ground-rule double, a walk by Curtis Pride and a single to right by Kennedy. But pinch-hitter Kendry Morales was caught looking, and Juan Rivera, pinch-hitting for Molina, swung at the first pitch and bounced into a double play to end the inning.

"There is a fine line between being selective and being too aggressive," Scioscia said. "The last few times, [Rivera has] been little aggressive, but he was looking for a pitch to drive and he got a breaking ball and he couldn't quite get it through."

The Angels put two more baserunners aboard in the eighth, but Guerrero struck out and Anderson flied out to end the inning.

"We have to play ball well, and if we don't, [the race] is academic," Scioscia said. "Today, we really didn't do any of the things that we needed."






