
ANAHEIM -- In the end, it all leads to K-Rod.

The Angels closer has been sensational of late and Sunday was no different.

Three batters, two strikeouts equals one Angels victory, this one a 4-3 win against the Blue Jays that kept the Halos within 5 1/2 games that was the club's seventh win in its past eight games.

With his 41st save of the season, Francisco Rodriguez became the youngest closer to record 100 saves. At 24 years old, he reached the milestone nearly a year earlier than Gregg Olson.

He hasn't had much trouble wrapping up Angels victories during his career, but nothing has come close to his recent stretch. Rodriguez hasn't allowed a run since June 26, a span of 28 1/3 innings, and now leads the Majors in saves.

"He's throwing the ball right now as well as we've ever seen him," manager Mike Scioscia said.

Scioscia is most impressed with how well such a young player has been able to bounce back from outings in which he, on rare occasion, has blown a save.

"Frankie is not going to, on the mental side, let a bad game affect him," he said. "That's a big quality when you combine it with the talent he has, to be able to bounce back and now be in the elite class of closers in baseball."

Rodriguez pitches with supreme confidence, an unflappable slider and lately sure command which he described as "100 percent perfect." His stuff was so promising that even in predecessor Troy Percival's celebration of reaching 300 in 2004, the former Angels closer made sure Rodriguez was in every photo opportunity.

After two years on the job, Rodriguez is already a third of the way to what the veteran Percival achieved on that day.

"It's a big step in my career," he said. "I have to continue working hard, hopefully one of these days when I retire would like to be up there on top of the leaderboard."

Rodriguez emerged on the Major League scene in 2002 during its most intense stretch, the September pennant chase and playoffs in October. Rodriguez excelled as the club's setup man, winning five games and earning his nickname by dazzling a nationwide audience.

After hearing Rodriguez speak of his induction to the Major Leagues, it's easy to tell that he was made to finish off in the ninth.

"The pressure helped me a lot, I love to be in those tough situations," he said. "Games like that and situations like those are going to make a ballplayer a real man."

Rodriguez teamed with Scot Shields and Brendan Donnelly for 3 1/3 innings of scoreless relief on Sunday in support of rookie Jered Weaver. Like Rodriguez, Donnelly struck out a pair of batters and Shields induced an inning-ending double play with two men aboard in the eighth.

With the A's defeating the Devil Rays on the road, the Angels needed a victory to remain 5 1/2 games back in pursuit of a division title. Even though their rivals' game went final in the early innings of the Angels' game, no sense of urgency ever appeared in the dugout.

"If they won, what do we do? We need to win," Scioscia said. "If they lose, what do we need to do? We need to win, so our focus is very clear."

Weaver (11-2) won his second straight game, though he wasn't his usual untouchable self. He allowed a two-run home run in the second inning to Adam Lind and gave up another run in the sixth on Aaron Hill's double.

The rookie threw a season-high 113 pitches to get through 5 2/3 innings and allowed six hits and three walks.

Garret Anderson scored on Howie Kendrick's sacrifice fly in the third to put the Angels ahead, 3-2. The run came a play after Vladimir Guerrero raced home when shortstop John McDonald threw wide of second on Juan Rivera's potential double-play ball.

Chone Figgins, who was 3-for-4, singled home Rivera for the third run of the inning.

Weaver got himself into an unenviable spot in the fifth inning, but with his California cool in full effect, was able to get out unscathed. Facing a pair of 90-RBI men with the bases loaded, the rookie got Vernon Wells to foul out to first and struck out former Angel Troy Glaus looking.

Mike Napoli added two hits, one his 15th home run of the year in the second inning. His second blast in three days closed the Angels' gap to 2-1 and set a team record for home runs by a rookie catcher.

After being hit by Anderson's line drive while facing just his fourth batter of the game, Blue Jays ace Roy Halladay had to leave with a contusion in his right elbow. The injury ruined what potentially appeared to be a matchup between a former and future Cy Young.

"I would have been more than happy to go up versus a Cy Young winner," Weaver said. "I was looking forward to it."

Instead, what Weaver had to look forward to was his closer making a little bit of history while recording his 16th straight save.

"It's pretty easy to give him the ball in the ninth," Weaver said.






