
TEMPE, Ariz. -- John Lackey was three runs down before he broke a good sweat on Thursday, but after that it was a relatively stress-free ride through four innings against the Rockies at Tempe Diablo Stadium.

Just another day of labor in the sun en route to an April 6 Opening Day assignment against the Athletics for the man from Abilene, Texas.












"I feel good," Lackey said, dismissing his rocky start -- two singles and a three-run bomb by Ian Stewart -- as a spring exercise, nothing over which to get excited. "After I got tired, I felt better. I was up [in the strike zone] in the first inning.

"One pitch, man," he said of the two-seam fastball that drifted into Stewart's wheelhouse and went sailing beyond the wall in right-center. "I'm pounding more fastballs with two-seamers -- there's going to be more contact. If you leave one up, they're going to hit it."

Manager Mike Scioscia was more than satisfied with Lackey's third Cactus League outing, approaching the midway point of the spring.

"John got his work in," Scioscia said following the 6-4 loss that left the Angels at 10-3 this spring. "Three hitters and they're up 3-0, [then] he started to make some pitches. I thought his fastball really had life. The last three innings he really got locked in.

"He's on pace."

Stewart's homer was nothing more than an irritant in March, but three-run blasts in the summertime can get Lackey's blood boiling.

He distributed 26 home-run balls in 2008, his highest total since 2003 when he yielded 31 long ones. Seventeen of the 26 blasts were worth one run only, a reflection of his desire, born of experience, to get early-count outs that take him deeper into games.

"Most of 'em were solo shots," Lackey said of the 26 bombs. "Things got a little different with people on base."

On balance, Lackey said he felt good about getting to the 60-pitch mark, another check mark along the path to April.

"I think I threw 25 in the first inning," he said, grinning. "My two-seamer was pretty good, but my curveball, I was disappointed in it. I was trying to get it in the dirt with two strikes and guys put it in play. I threw some changeups, a couple good cutters.

"It wasn't great, wasn't bad."

Lackey's relatively blas&eacute; manner extended to contract discussions with Angels management, which would like to keep the ace employed beyond 2009 if they can reach an agreement on an extension.

"They're going on," he said, adding that nothing appears imminent.

Following Lackey to the mound, Justin Speier served up a solo homer to Dan Ortmeier in his one inning of relief, and Kevin Jepsen and David Herndon worked a scoreless inning apiece. Jordan Walden was touched for a pair of runs on three hits and two walks in two innings.

"Walden's arm was really alive," Scioscia said, "but he had trouble putting guys away. Jepsen had good stuff -- [and] a better breaking ball today. Those guys have live arms."

Howie Kendrick continued to swing a lively bat, cranking out a pair of doubles to hike his average to .500 in 14 at-bats. Minor League shortstop Luis Figueroa singled twice and drove in a run, lifting his Cactus League average to .643 in 14 at-bats.

Torii Hunter felt what Scioscia described as "a little twinge in his shoulder" while swinging the bat, but "he's fine," the manager added.






