
ANAHEIM -- There's never a good time to be swept, in a four-game series, at home, against a last-place club. After suffering through a sweep by Seattle this weekend, though, the Angels will at least have three days off to regroup.

"I think if I would ever say that it's a good time for a break," first baseman Darin Erstad said, "this would be that time."

Indeed it would, as the banged-up Angels were outscored 33-13 by the resurgent Mariners during the sweep, including a 7-4 decision Sunday afternoon. With the loss, the Angels surrendered a four-game home series to a last-place club for the first time since May 6-9, 1996, against Kansas City.

That 1996 squad went 70-91, thanks in large part to a pitching staff that posted a 5.31 season ERA. This season's Angels rank second in the American League in ERA, but that was hard to tell against the Mariners.

Sunday, Seattle put a five-run inning on the board for the third consecutive day. This one came against rookie starter Ervin Santana and reliever Kevin Gregg and featured two two-run home runs.

"I think this is the first series where we had our starters go around one turn [in the rotation] and all those guys struggled," manager Mike Scioscia said. "Seattle just flat-out beat us, there's no real way to sugarcoat it."

Santana continued his trend of alternating outstanding and odious outings, following up a five-inning, one-run effort July 5 with Sunday's six-run, three-plus inning stint.

"Inconsistency's gonna be part of a young pitcher's package," Scioscia said. "Ervin's not that far away, and hopefully he's gonna have more good games than games like he had today."

Santana started off decently enough. He walked the bases full in the first inning as home-plate umpire Joe Brinkman squeezed his strike zone, but the rookie didn't leave a fastball up in the zone and got Jeremy Reed on a full-count called strikeout to end the inning, and then pitched a 1-2-3 second inning.

Meanwhile, the Angels twice held leads. They scored two unearned runs in the first as Chone Figgins singled and Erstad reached on catcher's interference for the fourth time this year, setting up RBI singles by Juan Rivera and Bengie Molina.

Seattle tied it up in the third when Raul Ibanez hit a two-run double off the top of the left-field fence, but Erstad walked leading off the bottom of the inning and scored on a fielder's choice to put the Angels ahead again, 3-2.

In the fourth, though, youthful inexperience -- and some nice hitting by the Mariners -- would do in Santana and the Angels.

Leading off, Willie Bloomquist drove a belt-high offering into the gap for a double and Jose Lopez punched a slider down the right-field line for a run-scoring double. Up came catcher Miguel Olivo, who entered the game batting .145 with 38 strikeouts in 124 at-bats. The book on Olivo is simple -- throw him breaking stuff away and you'll strike him out; if you don't leave a fastball up and over the plate, he probably won't beat you.

After a foul bunt and a ball, though, Santana let a fastball get too high and Olivo turned on it and drove it into the left-field seats for a 5-3 Mariners lead. It was another tough lesson for Santana, but the confident rookie won't forget it.

"If you keep winning, winning, winning, you don't learn anything," he said, "but if you lose, you know how you can do better."

Kevin Gregg relieved Santana and, after allowing a single, nearly escaped the inning, but Richie Sexson drove the first pitch he saw to right-center for a two-run homer and a four-run Seattle lead.

Vladimir Guerrero drove a 2-2 curveball from Mariners starter Gil Meche over the center-field fence leading off the sixth to complete the scoring, but also struck out with the bases loaded in the seventh. Meche (9-6) allowed four runs (two earned) in six innings for the win.

"We didn't play well, and they played fantastic," Erstad said. "[They are] a team that hasn't played up to their potential this season, and they played like they were expected to."

The Angels, for the first time in weeks, didn't live up to expectations. The club was 22-10 since May entering the Mariners series and had an 8 1/2-game lead on second-place Texas -- an advantage that's now down to five games.

On the plus side, though, center fielder Steve Finley will be activated Thursday when the Angels resume play in Minnesota, and shortstop Orlando Cabrera could return Saturday. As for the sweep, well, sometimes you just get beat.

"We've hit a few bumps in the road," Scioscia admitted, "but that's no reason to take the whole truck apart."






