
NEW YORK -- A four-day break probably looks very good to the Angels right about now, especially after they allowed double-digit runs for the seventh time this season and second time in three games against the Yankees.

The Halos gave up three home runs among 12 hits to the Bronx Bombers on Sunday, wrapping up the first half of the 2007 campaign with a 12-0 loss at Yankee Stadium.

The Angels (53-35) enter the break still in first place in the American League West, yet they have lost four of their last six and eight of 12.

"We're not looking at the standings -- our challenge isn't what place we're in," manager Mike Scioscia said. "Our challenge is how we're playing the game. There's some parts of our game that haven't been on the field as much as we need them in the last week. We've got a rough stretch -- there's no way to sugarcoat it."

Starter Ervin Santana (5-10) continues to baffle the Angels and everyone else who had high expectations for the 24-year-old right-hander coming into the season. After collecting 28 wins over the past two seasons and posting a 4.28 ERA last year, Santana has many at wit's end.

Santana gave up two of the New York homers -- a three-run shot by Hideki Matsui in the first inning and a three-run homer by Robinson Cano in the fourth -- taking his fourth straight loss and first career loss against the Yankees.

"He's got such a good arm -- it looks lively, and everything's the same," catcher Jose Molina said while packing his bags for the beaches of Puerto Rico. "I really don't know what to say. I can't find anything. Hopefully, these four days of break will help him."

Santana allowed nine runs on seven hits and two walks, getting hooked in the fourth inning without recording an out. Following Cano's home run, Santana gave up a double to Andy Phillips and walked Johnny Damon before coming out for reliever Chris Resop.

Santana hasn't posted a victory since June 9 and has allowed 22 earned runs over his last four starts for a 9.90 ERA. His ERA for the season is 5.97, and his record on the road is 1-8.

"The results just are, obviously, 180 degrees from what we need," said Scioscia, who wouldn't speak to whether Santana has to show progress by a certain time if he wants to remain in the starting rotation. "We need him to start pitching better. Our starting rotation is very important to us. We have to keep moving forward and seeing some progress. We've tried a lot of different things with Ervin, and we're just trying to find one thing that will click."

There's nothing physically wrong with Santana, and his mechanics appear sound. He and the Angels have also looked into whether the right-hander is tipping pitches, but Santana said he wasn't. He even smiled when someone brought up the topic, saying it was the first thing he looked at when things started to go really bad several starts ago.

Santana admits that control of his breaking pitches has been a problem, causing him to fall behind in the count and allow hitters to sit on his fastball.

Like many of his teammates, Santana plans on going away for the All-Star break rather than focusing on his pitching, a choice that makes sense.

"I'm just going to take a deep breath and get ready for the second half," Santana said. "That's what I have to do."

Retiring the first two batters upon entering the game, Resop promptly gave up a three-run homer to Alex Rodriguez to complete the Yankees' six-run fourth inning. Resop, originally an outfielder who started pitching four years ago, had to leave the game while facing his next batter.

With a 2-2 count on Matsui, Resop complained of irritation in his right elbow and was removed for Chris Bootcheck. Resop will be examined by the team's medical director, Dr. Lewis Yocum, in Los Angeles on Monday.

Offensively, the Angels managed just five singles off Yankees starter Chien-Ming Wang (9-4), including a pair from Garret Anderson, but never more than two in the same inning.






