
The Angels came within a few swings of reaching the World Series in 2005, which sends the club back to the office to analyze scouting reports, spray charts and maybe even a spreadsheet or two to determine where the roster ultimately fell short.

Sought from there will be the best avenue to fill any holes, whether perceived or real, from  outside the organization or within, but the club is not demonstrating any notions of standing pat.

The two most recent offseasons in the Arte Moreno era are cases in point. The club has landed such free agent talent as Bartolo Colon, Vladimir Guerrero, Kelvim Escobar, Orlando Cabrera and Paul Byrd during those two years.

With as much as $25 million suddenly available as a result of the impending free agent status of Jarrod Washburn, Bengie Molina, Tim Salmon and Byrd, the Angels will once again be in a buyer's mode. Left-handed reliever Jason Christiansen and infielder Lou Merloni, who spent most of the season rehabbing from ankle surgery, will also be free agents.

"There is going to be some flexibility," general manager Bill Stoneman said. "We are not projecting a lower payroll, and it will be a little higher than it is now."

The Angels' payroll was $97.7 million in 2005, fourth highest in baseball.

Part of that money could be reinvested in one of their own free agents. Stoneman has identified Molina as a player the club would like to retain. However, while the catcher would like to return, he is also believed ready to test his value on the open market.

The Angels have plenty of depth at catcher within the organization, with Bengie's brother, Jose, a possibility and high-level prospects Jeff Mathis and Mike Napoli closing in on the big-league roster, but Bengie Molina has been a steady influence behind the plate for the Angels pitching staff and he was one of the few consistent hitters for the team this past season.

"Bengie has been a key player for us," Stoneman said.

With the emergence of rookie right-hander Ervin Santana and the return of Escobar to the rotation next season, the Angels will have just one rotation slot open to join right-handers John Lackey and Colon.

Right-hander Chris Bootcheck and left-hander Joe Saunders are close to Major League ready (Steven Shell and Jered Weaver are also lurking) and will be given an opportunity to win a spot in the rotation if the Angels do not fill it with a veteran arm. But the club also prefers the security of young pitchers in the system to fill a gap when the need arises, as they did with Santana this past season.

"At some point in the year you're going to need depth, and that depth saved us early on this year and showed how important depth is in the year," Stoneman said.

If the Angels go the veteran route and re-sign a free agent starter, there will only be room for one. Both pitchers have said they would like to return.

"I like pitching here, but it is out of my control," Byrd said. "We'll see what happens."

But pitching was not a problem for the Angels in 2005, and though the club needs to settle the issues they have with the rotation and how to find a setup man to replace Escobar in the bullpen, it's the offense that will require the most attention.

Salmon could provide an answer at designated hitter while providing power from the  right side of the plate, but the 37-year-old is coming off two surgeries, one to his left knee and another to his left shoulder, and has missed an entire year. If he does not sign with another team, the Angels are expected to extend Salmon a non-roster invitation to Spring Training.

What scuttled the Angels' chances to advance to their second World Series in four seasons was an inconsistent offense that picked the worst time to slip into the club's biggest slump of the year. Led by Guerrero, who went just 1-for-20 and hit only two balls out of the infield, the Angels hit .175 in a five-game ALCS loss to the White Sox. Cabrera, Darin Erstad and Adam Kennedy led the Angels with four hits each in the series.

With 32 homers and 108 RBIs, Guerrero had a solid season, but he suffered from a lack of protection in the lineup as Garret Anderson battled back and knee injuries during much of the year and hit just 17 homers with 96 RBIs.

Chone Figgins led the team with 113 runs scored and also led the Majors with 62 stolen bases, but with him rendered ineffective in the ALCS, the offense lacked some spark.

Possible free agents that could fill a need for the Angels include White Sox first baseman Paul Konerko, Tigers outfielder/DH Rondell White, Mets catcher Mike Piazza (who would also fill in as DH), Red Sox center fielder Johnny Damon, and Cardinals outfielder Reggie Sanders.

Stoneman also said he would consider any trade possibility. Boston's Manny Ramirez will likely generate some offseason buzz as his name gets linked with a number of clubs, and Seattle third baseman Adrian Beltre could also be available.

But if outside help does not materialize, the Angels still have Kendry Morales, the Cuban defector who hit .344 in 90 games at Class A and .306 with 17 homers and 54 RBIs in 74 games at Double-A this past season. Morales is also performing well in the Arizona Fall League.

The Angels know another productive bat is a priority if they are to defend their American League West crown, and they'll weigh all of their options to target the best plan.

"Whatever is going to work for us," Stoneman said. "We're not going to focus on only one way of doing it. You look at all the possibilities."






