
LOS ANGELES -- With Vladimir Guerrero being placed on the 15-day disabled list on Saturday, Juan Rivera got the call in right field for the Angels, with Jeff DaVanon playing left and batting third against the Dodgers.

The Angels have also suffered injuries to Bengie Molina, Kelvim Escobar, Garret Anderson, Steve Finley and Francisco Rodriguez this season, but losing Guerrero puts a different spin on the issue.

"If you're a championship organization, you have the depth to absorb things -- if Vladdy or Garret or Finley is out a few days," manager Mike Scioscia said. "No one is going to absorb the loss of Vladdy for two months and not feel that."

Guerrero hurt his left shoulder while sliding into home on Friday night, suffering a partial dislocation. The extent of his injury won't be known until next Monday or Tuesday, when he is slated to have an MRI.

Rivera replaced Guerrero in the fifth inning of Friday's game and hit a grand slam in the top of the ninth.

Play the game: Scioscia was not critical of third-base coach Ron Roenicke's decision to send Guerrero on Finley's double. He said it was a mark of how the Angels play and how Guerrero approaches the game.

"We're playing baseball; that is the right decision," Scioscia said. "You want [the opposition] to make a play and they made a play. Vlad plays baseball and when he's playing hard he minimizes the chance of injury. The decision was right."

Escobar improving: Escobar felt no effects of his bullpen session Friday and will throw from the mound on Sunday and again on Wednesday. The Angels right-hander is eligible to come off the DL on Friday, and his normal turn in the rotation is due the following day.

Scioscia has not made a decision yet whether Escobar will be cleared to pitch for the Angels or if Ervin Santana will make a third start for the big club, but Escobar is encouraged by how he feels.

"I feel good; I'm very happy," Escobar said. "Hopefully everything goes OK."

Trainer's room: Scioscia had penciled Anderson into the lineup in left field for Saturday's game at Dodger Stadium, but the veteran felt his right hamstring was still too sore and was held out at least one more day.

Anderson said he wasn't sure how long he'll be out.

Closer to returning, though, is Rodriguez, who could be ready Sunday. The right-hander threw off the mound Friday and experienced no further problems with his forearm. Rodriguez has not appeared in a game since earning a save in the first half of the doubleheader in Detroit last Saturday.

"It is nothing to be worried about; it is minor," Rodriguez said, adding the pain has subsided. "But it could be a wakeup call for the future."

Rodriguez said he'll try to be more diligent with the maintenance work after he throws to better care for his arm. One thing the Angels closer has not done in the past is ice his arm after each outing. Rodriguez said he still won't ice each time, but would decide based on number of pitches and how he feels.

"I just want to stay and be healthy and be 100 percent," Rodriguez said. "I don't want to go out and be 70, 80 or 90 percent. I want to get ready and close some games."

On deck: The Angels will conclude their three-game Interleague series with the Dodgers on Sunday at 1:10 p.m. PT. Right-hander Paul Byrd will face Dodgers right-hander Derek Lowe.








