
Many fantasy fans prefer to stock their rosters full of players from their favorite team, as opposed to players who make a living playing for a feared rival. Wouldn't you rather go through the season checking Vladimir Guerrero's stats every night, instead of a player from another American League West team?

If competing for a title feels empty without having a bunch of Angels on your team, here are 10 guys to focus on come draft day:
1. Vladimir Guerrero | OF | $28 
Although he might not have the young wheels of seasons past, Guerrero continues to post top-shelf numbers for his fantasy owners. His 125 RBIs in 2007 were good for fifth in the AL and marked the ninth time the 32-year-old has broken the century mark. The addition of Torii Hunter to the lineup -- combined with the expected improvements of youngsters Howie Kendrick and Casey Kotchman -- should give Vlad all the protection he needs, so expect more of the same from him in '08.




2. Francisco Rodriguez | RP | $26 
K-Rod turned in another fine 2007 season, his third with at least 40 saves. Needing little help from his defense, Rodriguez has averaged 94 strikeouts over the last two seasons, tops among all ninth-inning men not named Brad Lidge. His career-worst 4.54 BB/9 ratio suggests that trouble could be on the horizon, however, and his volatile delivery doesn't exactly ease any concerns. Don't push the panic button yet, but think twice about investing top dollar on the Angels fireman.




3. Chone Figgins | 3B | $21 
Last year, a pair of broken fingers cost Figgins the first month of the season and left him floundering with a .133 average through his first 25 games. But in 90 games from May 31 on, the speedster exploded for a .381 batting average, 71 runs and 38 stolen bases. That resulted in career highs in average, OBP and slugging percentage, though his isolated power (SLG-AVG) dropped slightly from the past three seasons. Figgins will likely finish with an average closer to his career .293 mark in '08, but he should continue providing runs and steals in abundance.




4. Torii Hunter | OF | $21 
Hunter made the most of his contract year in 2007, collecting a career-high 107 RBIs while bouncing back in the stolen base department. Fresh off cashing in on his new contract, the 32-year-old might succumb to the pressures of proving his worth while manning center field for the Angels. A drop in his numbers seems inevitable, though Hunter remains a worthwhile outfielder to pursue because of his 20-20 ability.




5. John Lackey | SP | $19 
Lackey tends to be slightly undervalued even though he's proven to be a durable starter and consistently provides top production across the board. As such, if you miss out on Johan Santana, Erik Bedard and the other top rotation arms, feel free to snatch up the Angels ace. Given his strong command and strikeout ability, as well as the help he receives from one of the game's top bullpens, Lackey is one of the safer starting pitching bets out there.




6. Howie Kendrick | 2B | $13 
Showing the skills that made him such a promising prospect, Kendrick bounced back from a couple of fractured fingers to finish with a .322 batting average in 2007. The 24-year-old isn't one to take many pitches, as he drew only nine walks in 338 at-bats. Then again, with his lightning-quick wrists, he's one of the few players who can get away with such an aggressive approach. Kendrick should easily top .300 for the second straight season in '08, and a full slate of at-bats should see him crack double-digit homers and steals for the first time.




7. Kelvim Escobar | SP | $11 
Escobar faded late in the second half last season (7.99 ERA in September), but much of that was due to knee and shoulder troubles. The skills are there for him to bounce back a bit in 2008, but injury issues tend to keep him from pitching at peak effectiveness. Don't overbid on the 31-year-old, but at the same time, don't shy away if you can get the talented right-hander for a nice discount.




8. Casey Kotchman | 1B | $11 
The 2007 season went smoothly for Kotchman, who seized control of the Angels' first-base job and delivered an .840 OPS. Seemingly always making contact, Kotchman struck out in just 9.7 percent of his at-bats, reinforcing the belief that he'll develop into a perennial .300 hitter. The lack of power leaves something to be desired, and last year's 50.6 percent ground-ball rate indicates that he won't blast many more long balls in '08. Still, owners should look for Kotchman to build on his first full season of success, especially if he can keep Kendry Morales at bay.




9. Mike Napoli | C | $10 
Napoli burst onto the scene two years ago with 16 home runs in just 268 at-bats. Although injuries limited his opportunities in 2007, he finished with a .794 OPS, which would have ranked him fourth among catchers if he had enough at-bats to qualify. Back at full health, the 26-year-old is a good bet to build on the strides he made last year. There's potential for a big season here, so don't sleep on Napoli in mixed leagues.




10. Gary Matthews Jr. | OF | $10 
Matthews provided owners with a steady diet of homers, RBIs and steals in 2007, though his batting average significantly dipped from the career-high .313 mark he posted the season before. Considering that the 33-year-old is a career .261 hitter, he's unlikely to improve much in that category, and he's probably not going to see quite as many at-bats with all the outfielders on the Angels roster. Matthews should still provide some speed and power, but don't expect a return to his '06 form.







