
ANAHEIM -- For Kendry Morales, born and raised in Cuba, the adjustments have been many, socially as well as professionally.

At 23, still finding his way in a new land with new friends, employees and challenges, Morales is having good days and bad days as he moves back and forth from Triple-A Salt Lake to the Major Leagues as an Angels first baseman and designated hitter.

He had one of his best days on Wednesday, crushing a two-run homer as the DH against Cleveland's Paul Byrd in the sixth inning that lifted the Angels off the canvas on their way to a 3-2 decision in the late rounds.

Morales' first homer of the season and sixth in his brief Major League career was a sure step in the long, difficult process.

"It was very important for me -- even more important that it came at that moment for the team," Morales said.

Speaking through interpreter Jose Mota, Morales said he is still getting accustomed to "the rhythm of life in the United States" after arriving in 2005 as one of Cuba's most coveted imports.

Morales spent most of the past two seasons in the Minor Leagues (Rancho Cucamonga, Arkansas, Salt Lake) while getting 57 games worth of exposure to the big time last season, hitting .234 with five homers and 22 RBIs.

"When I got to the big leagues, I was more erect, standing up straight," he said. "It didn't allow me to track the ball. I went down in a crouch in winter ball [in the Dominican Republic] and opened up my front foot. That helped me pick up the spin and rotation on the ball better.

"I actually made these changes toward the end of last year. But everything happened so quick. Over the winter, I got to relax and settle in with my new approach, and it's really helped."

He hit 34 homers in 527 at-bats at three Minor League levels during his first two seasons and 30 in 554 at-bats in his final two seasons playing for Havana in his native land. The power is there, and manager Mike Scioscia sees Morales on the right path.

"Kendry has a lot of potential," Scioscia said. "He's made great strides both offensively and defensively, becoming a capable first baseman. We like his future."

Quinlan gets the call: Morales was a switch-hitting bench option on Thursday against Indians left-hander Jeremy Sowers. Robb Quinlan was at first base and in the cleanup spot with Vladimir Guerrero taking a DH role and batting third.

"Robb's been swinging the bat well the last couple weeks against lefties," said Scioscia, adding that Morales looks more comfortable hitting from the left side against right-handers. "Against lefties, we have some good options to stick in front of Vlad. As much as you're trying to create in front of Vlad, you also need some depth behind him."

Gary Matthews, hitting .330 from the left side and .205 right-handed, was moved from third to fifth.

"Gary is searching for his right-handed swing," Scioscia said.

Matthews, the club's leadoff man for 29 games, was moved to the No. 3 spot to provide a threat in front of Guerrero.

"I'll continue to be aggressive and do the things that have gotten me to this point, wherever I hit," Matthews said. "The good thing is, I'm a little older now and know my game. It's a versatile, all-around game, doing a little bit of everything."

Kendrick to Salt Lake:  Second baseman Howie Kendrick (broken bone in his left middle finger) was dispatched to the Angels' Triple-A affiliate to get ready to test his injured hand in Pacific Coast League competition.

Kendrick took some swings on Wednesday and has been taking infield practice.

"Hopefully, he'll be close to playing in the middle of next week," Scioscia said. "It'll probably take five or six days of hitting to get him ready. He's got to build some hand strength."

Stat of the day: Guerrero has moved to the top of the American League in on-base percentage at .455 -- well above his .390 career mark heading into the season. Guerrero through Wednesday was second in the American League in slugging percentage (.673) and second in batting average (.355).

The big bopper has 19 walks (eight intentional) against only 12 strikeouts in 110 at-bats -- a remarkable ratio for a hitter who swings as violently as Vlad does.

Up next: Native Texan John Lackey (4-3, 2.60 ERA) gets the start on Friday night at Rangers Ballpark in Arlington, facing Rangers right-hander Vicente Padilla (1-4, 4.93 ERA) at 5:05 p.m. PT. It's the opener of a seven-game trip that also takes the Angels to Seattle.






