
ANAHEIM -- Injuries have forced manager Mike Scioscia to get a little creative with the lineup.

On Tuesday, Tim Salmon batted third for the first time this season. On Wednesday, it was Adam Kennedy's turn, a switch that will likely remain in effect as long as Garret Anderson is out of action.

The Angels have scored 40 runs in their last five games after totaling just nine in their previous five, and the club is looking to continue the recent trend.

"One of the things we're looking at against right-handed pitching is to get a little action at the head of our lineup," Scioscia said. "Adam is a good situational hitter and with Garret out, we need to extend our lineup a bit and get some people in front of [Vladimir Guerrero], who can create a little bit."

Under normal circumstances, Kennedy is the nine-hole hitter, as Scioscia prefers to link him with Chone Figgins and Orlando Cabrera at the top of order. But Kennedy said he'll approach hitting third in the lineup no differently.

"I'll probably have Chone and O.C. on base in front of me, so I'll still have to put the ball in play. I'm not going up there looking to hit home runs or anything," said Kennedy, who faced Blue Jays starter Casey Janssen on Wednesday. "I fully expect that pitchers will not pitch to me any different because I'm hitting in front of Vlad. They're still going to throw me the same pitches to try and get me out."

It is the sixth different spot in the order for Kennedy, the most by an Angels hitter this season. Scioscia said he likes to put Kennedy in a position to hit with runners on base.

"He is terrific in the nine-spot, because he is hot with runners in scoring position," Scioscia said. "Right now, he is hitting the ball well, so we will do this for a while."

Bad hammy: Anderson was out of the lineup for the second straight game with a strained left hamstring. He said he first felt the injury in Sunday's 9-4 loss to the Mariners, but he couldn't isolate a specific occurrence.

Anderson hasn't resumed any baseball related activities and said he won't know for sure how it feels until he begins running again. The Angels open a three-game series at Dodger Stadium on Friday, where there will be no designated hitter but Anderson wouldn't speculate on a possible return.

"I'd only be guessing," Anderson said. "I can't put a timetable on it."

Finding a groove: Figgins has been shuttling between positions again this season. With Darin Erstad out with a sore right ankle, Figgins started his sixth game of the year in center, his fifth different spot this season.

His versatility is invaluable to the ballclub but he entered Wednesday's game with a team-leading nine errors after making 10 all of last season. The Angels will not shy away, though, from playing Figgins where he is needed.

"Figgy is a good defender. In between those errors, there have been some terrific plays," Scioscia said. "He will be fine when he settles in; he hasn't had a real chance to settle in."

More time: Bartolo Colon's progression to a simulated game will be delayed at least a few more days as he throws another bullpen session. The right-hander needs to throw all of his pitches with ease before facing live hitters, Scioscia said.

Corrected calls: Cabrera had a stolen base erased in Tuesday's game when home plate umpire Mike Winters called himself for interference. Winters told Scioscia that Blue Jays catcher Bengie Molina stepped on his foot and he ordered Cabrera to return to first.

Molina also had a stolen base taken away a day later. A scoring change on Wednesday switched his stolen base on Tuesday to "defensive indifference." Jose Molina's stolen base stood, however.

On the farm: Jeff Mathis extended his hitting streak to 12 games with a single and a double in Triple-A Salt Lake's 4-1 loss to Iowa on Tuesday. Kendry Morales hit a double and a solo homer to raise his average to .291. Right-hander Jered Weaver allowed four hits in six scoreless innings with two walks and eight strikeouts for a no-decision. ... Salt Lake right-hander Kasey Olenberger (3-0, 2.20 ERA) was named Pacific Coast League Pitcher of the Week.

On deck: The Angels will conclude their three-game series with the Blue Jays on Thursday at 7:05 p.m. PT. Right-hander John Lackey will face Toronto right-hander Roy Halladay. Right-hander Jeff Weaver will start against the Dodgers on Friday.






