
ANAHEIM -- When Mike Scioscia took the reins of the struggling Angels in 2000, then-general manager Bill Stoneman recommended Joe Maddon, one of the candidates for the managerial position, for a role on Scioscia's coaching staff.

Taking Stoneman's advice, Scioscia put in a phone call to Maddon, a man of many interests and talents who had served the Angels for 25 years in a variety of roles after signing with them in 1976 as a free agent from Hazleton, Pa.

The two Pennsylvanians with a shared Italian heritage hit it off instantly, creating a bond that would drive the Angels to a World Series championship just two years later with Maddon contributing insights as Scioscia's bench coach.

Scioscia is delighted -- and not at all surprised -- that Maddon is the runaway 2008 American League Manager of the Year for transforming the Tampa Bay Rays into AL champions one year after they'd produced the league's worst record.

"I always felt Joe would be a good manager," Scioscia said. "No question. I could see how bright he was, how he saw the game, what he believed in. There certainly wasn't any doubt in my mind that if the guy got an opportunity, he'd do a great job. Some of my best times in baseball were those early years here with that first staff of ours."

Scioscia, the 2002 AL Manager of the Year, was third in the balloting by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. Minnesota's Ron Gardenhire finishing second and was handed the one first-place vote not awarded Maddon, the choice of 27 voters.


Scioscia, second on 12 ballots and third on nine, was recognized for guiding the Angels to the Majors' best record (100-62) and the best in franchise history. The AL West title was the Angels' fourth in five years.


It was with Scioscia's recommendation that Maddon accepted the Tampa Bay job after the 2005 season. The Rays had finished last in the AL East in seven of their first eight years of existence.

"It's an incredible turnaround, to say the least," Scioscia said. "I knew Joe would eventually build an organization to do this -- organization building is his strength. It's happened quicker than what you might expect."

In holding off the Red Sox in the AL East, the Rays won 97 games -- 31 more than in 2007. They eliminated the White Sox in four games in the AL Division Series (while the Angels were losing in four games to Boston) and then outlasted the Red Sox in seven gripping AL Championship Series games. The Rays' magic finally expired in the World Series with the Phillies claiming the big prize in five games.



table#moy_vote td {text-align:right;padding:1px 4px 1px 1px;border-left:1px solid #ccc;}table#moy_vote td.left {text-align:left;border:0;}


2008 AL Manager of the Year Award Voting


Manager, Club
1st
2nd
3rd
Points


Joe Maddon, TB
27
1
 
138


Ron Gardenhire, MIN
1
15
8
58


Mike Scioscia, LAA
 
12
9
45


Terry Francona, BOS
 
 
6
6


Ozzie Guillen, CWS
 
 
3
3


Cito Gaston, TOR
 
 
2
2




"You could see it brewing," Scioscia said. "Those guys have some young players that are extremely talented -- guys like Evan Longoria and B.J. Upton playing like veterans, and pitchers like Scott Kazmir, who's been around enough and is going to be a force.

"I think they turned it around with how they pitched. You can see that their young talent there is a good foundation. They've pitched well and that's why it turned around so quick."

Maddon took the Angels' blueprint -- pitching, defense and manufacturing offense with aggressive baserunning -- to Florida and made it work.

The Angels also used their formula to maximum impact in 2008 while leading the Majors in road wins (50) and having the best record in close games, paving the way for Francisco Rodriguez's record 62 saves.

"I'm proud of our guys, the way they played over the long season," Scioscia said. "They gave it everything they had, and that's all you can ask as a manager."



The Angels, picked to finish behind the Mariners in the AL West by many insiders, overcame a number of significant injuries over the course of the season. They opened without their two top starters, John Lackey and Kelvim Escobar. Lackey came back after missing six weeks with a triceps strain, but Escobar was lost for the season with shoulder surgery.

Ervin Santana and Joe Saunders emerged as All-Star starters, and new center fielder Torii Hunter anchored the defense with his eighth Rawlings Gold Glove while providing support for Vladimir Guerrero, Garret Anderson and Mark Teixeira (a midseason acquisition from Atlanta) in the heart of the lineup.






