
BOSTON -- The Angels have generated their greatest heat in the trading market, as talks with the Orioles in a possible deal for Miguel Tejada have increased over the weekend.

Several published reports have the Angels linked with a potential trade for the three-time All-Star and 2002 American League MVP. The club is not alone, as the Astros, Dodgers, Rangers and Tigers have also reportedly expressed interest, but manager Mike Scioscia confirmed on Saturday that the Angels are in the hunt.

"I know that it is a name that has bounced around, but not more than any other name that has been bounced around," Scioscia said. "I don't know how deep the talks have gone, but I know there have been discussions."

Tejada would certainly add the impact bat to the middle of the lineup. The 30-year-old entered Saturday with a .326 batting average, 18 home runs and 72 RBIs, and with three years remaining at about $13 million per season, he is the preferred target over Washington's Alfonzo Soriano because he would not be a two-month rental.

But cost in personnel is another issue.

A Foxsports.com story had Tejada coming to the Angels for right-handed starter Ervin Santana and Minor League shortstop Erick Aybar. Though prior requests for second baseman Howie Kendrick and Double-A shortstop Brandon Wood have been shot down, the Angels might be willing to part with Santana if the rotation were in better shape.

Bartolo Colon remains questionable with a sore right elbow. Kelvim Escobar was placed on the disabled list earlier this month, also with a sore right elbow. Jered Weaver, who started on Saturday, had a start pushed back earlier this month because of biceps tendinitis.

"Figure it out -- if you take one guy out of the rotation and take Bart and Esky out, we're down three-fifths of our rotation," Scioscia said.

Santana has been linked to trade talks before. Most teams inquired about the second-year right-hander when calling the Angels about potential deals. Santana said that he's a bit surprised by the timing of the rumors, given the health of the rotation, and wants to remain with the Angels, but he won't dwell on it.

"I don't care about that. Whatever happens, happens. I can't control that," Santana said. "The only thing I can control is on the mound."

An acquisition of Tejada would likely mean a position move, though. Scioscia said that he does not want to move Orlando Cabrera from shortstop, which means Tejada would have to agree to play third if he joined the Angels.

General manager Bill Stoneman said that the Angels had been close on some earlier deals that saw players change teams. The club was interested in former Indians first baseman Ben Broussard, who was traded to Seattle for outfielder Shin-Soo Choo, and Shea Hillenbrand, who went to the Giants.

But Stoneman also said that the offers he currently has on the table are competitive, and he remains optimistic that a deal could be done before Monday's deadline.

"You try to judge what the other club is thinking about, and they give you some information, but when it all comes right down to it, offers are different, players are different and people make their own choices when they're faced with multiple offers," Stoneman said. "This really is a seller's market right here, and the guys who are the sellers of the better players are sitting on multiple offers themselves. You just don't now how they're going to view it."

More talks: The Cubs have expressed interest in Class A right-hander Nick Adenhart, according to an industry source. The Angels have received a number of inquiries about the 19-year-old right-hander, who increased his record to 4-1 with a win on Friday, when he allowed two runs on five hits over seven innings.

The Cubs have reportedly shopped third baseman Aramis Ramirez, who could also provide some depth to the Angels' lineup. Ramirez entered Saturday hitting .269 with 23 homers, but he's been hot lately. In July, he has a .322 average with nine home runs.

But Adenhart, whom the Angels drafted in 2004 and then put on a regimented rehab program following elbow reconstruction surgery, figures heavily into the organization's future plans.

Wait and see: The Angels have not made any determination yet as to whether Colon will make his next scheduled start. The right-hander's turn is on Tuesday at home against the A's, but the club has Joe Saunders on notice to start if Colon is unavailable.

Colon left his last start after allowing four runs on four hits in one inning and has been diagnosed with triceps tendinitis.

Trainer's room: Kevin Gregg has tested his sore left knee, and he is fine. The right-hander left his last outing after 3 1/3 innings of the Angels' win over the Devil Rays on Wednesday. ... Dallas McPherson (lower back strain) has not resumed baseball activities and remains shut down, but is making progress, Scioscia said. ... Casey Kotchman has seen a doctor in Tampa, Fla., for another opinion in his recovery from mononucleosis. ... There has been no change in the progress of Darin Erstad, who is on the DL with a sore right ankle, Scioscia said.

New target: Saturday was the first time that Jose Molina caught for Jered Weaver. Rookie Mike Napoli was behind the plate for Weaver's seven other starts, but with the 1 a.m. PT finish in Friday night's game and a day game on Saturday, it was time for Molina to get the call, Scioscia said.

On the farm: Right-hander Dustin Moseley (8-6) allowed three runs on seven hits and two walks to take the loss on Friday. Aybar went 2-for-4 with a double.

On deck: The Angels will conclude their three-game series with the Red Sox on Sunday at 5:05 p.m. PT. Right-hander John Lackey will face Boston right-hander Curt Schilling. Santana will start against the A's when the Angels open a seven-game homestand on Monday.










