
ANAHEIM -- Working out of the less is more file, Dallas McPherson chooses to go small when he takes infield each day.

Starting with slow grounders and working through his entire routine, McPherson uses a glove the size you are likely to see any day on a youth baseball diamond. At 6-foot-4 and 230 pounds, McPherson's practice glove appears even smaller but it's not a trick to remind him that baseball is a kid's game. It's a serious tool to help him become a better Major League third baseman.

"If you can field everything with [the smaller glove] you can field anything," McPherson said. "That's the way I look at it."

McPherson will shift back to his gamer for the last few ground balls, but not always. It's a practice technique that stretches back to the minors and it's something he's tinkered with for the past few years. But this season, McPherson has employed it as a regular part of his routine and he said it's already paid off.

"It keeps you down longer and I feel a lot cleaner in how I field ground balls," McPherson said of using the smaller glove to practice. "I'm not getting tied up as much; everything is a lot smoother."

The Angels were fairly confident that McPherson would be able to deliver offensively. Entering Wednesday's series finale with the Twins, he was hitting .249 with 14 doubles, two triples, eight homers and 26 RBIs. But he's also delivered in the clutch with a two-out, game-tying home run in the bottom of the ninth in Texas on June 29 and a 10th-inning walk-off blast on May 27 at home against the Royals.

But his defense has been better than expected. Though his seven errors are tied with Chone Figgins for most on the Angels, McPherson has not committed an error since June 19. He gives a lot of the credit to coach Alfredo Griffin, a former Gold Glove shortstop who works with the infielders.

"Grif has helped me to get into more of a defensive mindset. He really simplifies things," McPherson said.

A big improvement for McPherson through the first half of the season has been his footwork. He said he doesn't rush as many plays and he sets up better to make stronger and more accurate throws.

But to get into position to make the big play, McPherson starts each day with some small ball to help sharpen his mental edge.

"You can't get away with anything," McPherson said.

Minor in name only: As strong as the Angels are at the Major League level, it's arguable that their Minor Leagues are even more stocked with talent.

Shortstop Brandon Wood, 20, has hit 28 home runs for Class A Rancho Cucamonga to lead all Minor Leaguers. What's more, he's added 28 doubles and is batting .292 with 71 RBIs in 329 at-bats through Tuesday. He's made only 10 errors this season, despite being taller (6-foot-3) than most shortstops.

"He looks like he's terrific at shortstop and he's pounding the ball," Scioscia said. "He's answered a lot of questions."

Second baseman Howie Kendrick, 21, finished Tuesday batting a sizzling .375 for Rancho Cucamonga, with 33 extra-base hits and 13 steals. He's made 16 errors, but his defense has improved markedly since he entered the Angels organization.

"He might've been the most improved player [defensively] in camp [this Spring]," Scioscia said. "And this guy's gonna hit. He can square up a ball."

The Angels also have three catching prospects whom Scioscia says have Major League tools: Jeff Mathis (.280 with 10 homers and 40 RBIs in Triple-A), Mike Napoli (.268 with 16 homers and 62 RBIs in Double-A), and Bobby Wilson (.292 with 17 doubles and 35 RBIs in Class A).

To top it all off, 2004 first-round draft pick Jered Weaver allowed two hits and no earned runs in a season-high five innings for Rancho Cucamonga on Tuesday, striking out seven without walking a batter.

"It takes a bit for a guy to get settled into pro ball," Scioscia said. "Everything from the game to the talent level to pitching to wooden bats, [but] reports on his stuff have been good and his command has been good."

Finley, Cabrera move forward: Center fielder Steve Finley took batting practice in the cage on Wednesday morning and was scheduled to hit on the field Thursday, after which he might be sent on a rehabilitation assignment, Scioscia said.

Shortstop Orlando Cabrera has resumed throwing and probably will not be sent on a Minor League rehab assignment prior to his activation, which Scioscia is optimistic will come immediately after the All-Star Break.

On deck: The Angels open a four-game home set against the Mariners on Thursday at 7:05 p.m. PT. Seattle's Joel Piniero (2-4, 5.79) will face Bartolo Colon (11-4, 3.06 ERA).






