
The mental strength, together with the patience that Venezuelan outfielder Juan Rivera has shown in his first four years in the Major Leagues, will once again be put to the test. This time, it has nothing to do with him awaiting his time to be in the lineup, nor is it the feeling of anxiety he has when the hits don't fall in.

The young hitter from Guarenas, who will turn 29 in July, suffered a fracture to his left leg during a Venezuelan Winter League game last December, an injury that will keep him out of action anywhere from three to eight months and an obvious blow to him, his team and Angels fans.

In a recent conversation from Miami near the facility where he was operated on, in a sad voice he spoke to me describing the play. It was a ground ball that had been hit to the right side of the infield; the pitcher was covering first base and both of them arrived at the base at the same time and met in a great collision. It was a horrible moment.

As he was lying on the playing field, "the first thing that passed through my mind was fear for my career, my future," he said. "It's like in an instant all the images of your past playing days go through your mind like in a movie. I felt this pain in my leg and I couldn't move it, and then the trainers came and helped me off the field. It was a moment I will never forget. There is nothing and no one to blame; these are things that happen throughout the course of the game of baseball."

Speaking of courses, the course of his career as an established player was becoming ever more clear. Rivera had just completed the best season in his career, batting .310 with 23 home runs and 85 RBIs. He also shined defensively, leading the American League with 13 outfield assists. This type of performance played a vital role in the Angels having the best record in the Major Leagues from July 1 on, registering 54 wins and 29 losses.

Even with this type of finish, the team fell short in its quest to make the playoffs. For 2007, the Angels were counting on this type of production from Rivera, to complement a lineup that is led by slugger Vladimir Guerrero and the speed of Chone Figgins, the spark of Orlando Cabrera, the production of a healthy Garret Anderson and now the dimension added by switch-hitter Gary Matthews Jr.

It is worth pointing out that the Angels didn't just sit with their arms crossed. They moved quickly after Rivera's injury and acquired the services of veteran right-handed hitter Shea Hillenbrand, who can serve as a designated hitter as well as fill in at the corners of the infield.

In the midst of everything, remaining calm and confident, Rivera commented: "I will be working hard in my rehab to return strong with the ability to help the team. We have a good team and we can go far, so I hope that at some point in the season, I will be able to make a contribution."

He also emphasized that "what the doctors tell me is that I have to be patient; the first week they recommended that I didn't even get out of bed. During the operation, they put in a plate and screws to stabilize and protect the bone. I have faith in God that everything happens for a reason, and I have a lot of confidence in the people that are helping me."

Soon, Rivera will have to travel to Arizona for rehabilitation under the watchful eyes of the Angels' specialists. Despite his tribulations, he said, "I will be a big fan of the team and I will do all I can to help, even if it's in a limited way."







