
ANAHEIM -- He's been an American League pitcher his entire career, but Kelvim Escobar has a special affinity for the National League game.

When the Angels embark on their road trip to San Francisco and Arizona beginning on Monday, it means the club's pitchers will get to take their hacks at the plate.

Despite holding a career .059 (1-for-17) average, Escobar said he relishes the chance to help his own cause at the plate.

"It's exciting when you hit," Escobar, Monday's starter, said.  "You feel like you're really in the game when you're hitting and might get on base. It feels like you're doing more for the team."

It's commonplace for NL pitching staffs to hold season-long competitions in batting performances, but Escobar says he and the other Angels starters are just concerned with playing small ball to help the team win.

"You want to be able to bunt to move the guys over," he said.  "If you have a chance to swing the bat, you want to get an RBI.  It's not easy because we never hit, but we'll try our best."

With experience from his stint with the Dodgers, Jeff Weaver has the best hitting numbers on the Angels staff.  Weaver holds a .217 lifetime average with 10 RBIs.  Both John Lackey (0-for-11) and Ervin Santana (0-for-1) have yet to record a Major League hit.

Erstad hurting: After aggravating his right ankle on Saturday, Darin Erstad was held out of the starting lineup Sunday and was unlikely to be available for pinch-hitting duties.

Angels manager Mike Scioscia said the ankle would be evaluated on a day-to-day basis, but ruled out playing Erstad at first base, because the manager said it wouldn't put less stress on his ankle.

Since returning from the DL last Sunday, Erstad has just one hit in 11 at-bats.




Complete coverage &gt;

"It's uncomfortable [to hit], but it's not like I can't do it," the center fielder said.  "Though when it's flared up, it is not too much fun to be on."

Problem in the outfield?: A day after Padres outfielder Dave Roberts was sent to the hospital by banging his knee on a cement portion of the left-field wall, Angels spokesman Tim Mead said the club was going to "look into" fixing the issue.

Mead said the current eight-inch concrete gap between the outfield dirt and the wall's padding was increased at the start of the 2005 season, but he did not have a reason as to why.

"We can't do something right away," he said.  "But we're going to look at it to get it corrected."

Aside from Roberts' injury, Orioles outfielder Jay Gibbons was recently placed back on the DL after aggravating a knee injury suffered when he crashed into the right-field wall at Angel Stadium last month.

Garret Anderson, the Angels regular left fielder, said he doesn't like that the padding doesn't completely hit the ground and, as a result, won't attempt the play that Roberts did.

"You have to change your game, unfortunately," he said.

New mate: Perhaps a sign that Mike Napoli has assumed the starting catcher role, Scioscia decided to put the rookie behind the plate to catch Bartolo Colon in his return from the DL on sunday rather than veteran catcher Jose Molina.

Molina has much more experience catching the defending American League Cy Young Award winner, but Scioscia said Napoli -- who had never caught Colon in a regular-season game -- needs the experience.

"It's time to take some chains off," Scioscia said.  "They're going to need to eventually work together. The experience has to start sometime."

Day off: Owner of a 47-game streak of reaching base, Orlando Cabrera was given a day off on Sunday.

"He's been very good," Scioscia said.  "Mentally it's good to him a day off and get him to watch a game."

Maicer Izturis began the game at short and Adam Kennedy hit in Cabrera's No. 2 hole.

Jered Weaver hit hard: Jered Weaver had his worst outing all season in his return to Triple-A Salt Lake on Sunday.  After being demoted from the Majors with a 4-0 record and 1.37 ERA, Weaver struggled and allowed five runs (four earned) in five innings, including three home runs, in the Bees' 8-5 loss to Las Vegas.

Fighting prostate cancer: To raise awareness of prostate cancer, the Angels took part in a league-wide "6th Inning Stretch" during the Father's Day game.  The unprecedented break included a rendition of "God Bless America" and a round of "Take Me Out To the Ballgame."

Players on both the Angels and Padres and umpires wore blue wristbands throughout Sunday's game as a sign of support for the Prostate Cancer Foundation. Also, each base and was adorned with a blue ribbon logo and a commemorative home plate signed by Angels players is set to be auctioned off at a later date to raise funds for the Foundation.

Up next: The Angels head to San Francisco on Monday to take on the Giants and starter Matt Cain (5-5, 5.35 ERA) at AT&T Park. Escobar (5-7, 3.62) will make his first career start against the Giants.






