
MINNEAPOLIS -- For a guy who's played only one game in the Metrodome, Orlando Cabrera sure has reason to remember the place fondly. That's because his long, strange, and ultimately successful trip to the World Series began here last Aug. 1. 

The Montreal Expos traded Cabrera to Boston in a deadline-beating deal, and Cabrera hopped on the first flight to Minneapolis, where the Red Sox were playing the Twins.

"I remember when I flew here, I landed at 5:00 [p.m.], and I called [Red Sox manager] Terry Francona and told him to keep me in the lineup," Cabrera said. "I was in the lineup, and they were afraid that I wasn't going to make it on time."

Instead, Cabrera arrived in time to shake a few hands, don his new uniform, and hit a first-inning home run off eventual Cy Young Award winner Johan Santana.

"I got [to the ballpark] at 6:20, and about 45 minutes after that I hit a home run," Cabrera said. "I was so excited to just join my team, it was so special."

Over the next three months, of course, Cabrera followed a path that led him through Anaheim, New York and St. Louis as the Red Sox won their first World Series in 86 years. 

Then, Edgar Renteria -- Cabrera's shortstop counterpart in the World Series -- left St. Louis for Boston, which led Cabrera to sign with the Angels (and bounced former Angel shortstop David Eckstein to the Cardinals).

"It was amazing, not only to be [in Boston] and be part of everything, but to contribute to the success of the team," Cabrera said. "That's what made it such a special season."

Now, Cabrera's back in the building that launched his life-changing trip with yet another group of new teammates, and he's hoping for similar results.

"Coming from a championship team to a team that was in the playoffs last year and is in contention every year to win a World Series, especially this year, is a big challenge for me," Cabrera said. "That's what I'm playing for."

He got off to another good start at the Metrodome on Friday, hitting a home run in his first at-bat against Twins right-hander Carlos Silva.

Home cooking for Quinlan: Though he's on his third tour of duty with the Angels, infielder Robb Quinlan said coming home never gets old.

The Maplewood, Minn., native and former University of Minnesota standout has gone through his ticket allotment -- and then some -- this weekend as he returns to his hometown and the ballpark where he played much of his collegiate career. But he's also trying to strike a balance between enjoying himself and preparing himself to beat the Twins.

"Obviously it's great to get back and see all my friends and family, but on the other hand, we're here to win some baseball games," Quinlan said. "You don't get that many opportunities to see your family and friends during the year, but sometimes too you want to see so many people and you don't have that much time so you can run into trouble."

Going into this weekend's series, Quinlan had a .313 career batting average at the Metrodome in 16 at-bats.

Rest for the weary: Manager Mike Scioscia said that outfielders Vladimir Guerrero and Garret Anderson would likely get some time off during the Twins series, either serving as the designated hitter for a game or getting a day off.

Both veterans have been logging a lot of innings, and the Metrodome's FieldTurf playing surface -- which was installed last season -- sealed the deal for Scioscia.

"Even though this surface is a lot better than the old stuff they had a couple of years ago, it's still harder than most," Scioscia said. "You want to try to minimize that, especially with outfielders who do a lot of running. You want to let them stay off it if you have a chance."

Molina close: Scioscia said that although Bengie Molina would not be activated during the Angels' current nine-game road trip, the catcher will receive a test of his strained quadriceps this weekend. 

"He's going to squat tomorrow," Scioscia said before Friday's game. "He'll catch batting practice, and we'll see how he reacts to it. It should give us an idea of how far along he is."

Molina has been on the disabled list since April 18.

On deck: Kelvim Escobar makes his second start since returning from the disabled list on Saturday as he faces Minnesota's Brad Radke.








