
The following is the fourth in a series of weekly stories on MLB.com examining each Major League club, position by position. Each Wednesday until Spring Training camps open, we'll preview a different position. Today: Outfielders.

Talk about celestial formations. Few, if any, clubs in the game match the Angels in the outfield in terms of talent and depth.

From Vladimir Guerrero -- not a bad place to start -- through a deep and versatile support group, manager Mike Scioscia has power, speed and quality defense to draw from in 2008 as he plots the club's American League West title defense.

Already formidable, the unit became potentially dominant with the acquisition of free-agent center fielder Torii Hunter, a Rawlings Gold Glove winner the past seven seasons in Minnesota.

"These guys shocked me," Hunter said of a five-year, $90 million deal that came together quickly and provided Angels fans with a wonderful Thanksgiving treat. "I wanted to play with these guys. For me, they were one of the teams I was looking at -- but I didn't know if they were looking at me.

"We shocked the world. Now I'm an Angel. I'm going to hopefully finish my career as a Halo and hopefully get about three [World Series] rings out of this thing."

Hunter, 32, batted .287 with 28 homers and a career-high 107 RBIs while playing 160 games in 2007. He made the American League All-Star team for the second time in his career and finished 15th in the AL MVP balloting.

Hunter's arrival signals a significant role change for Gary Matthews Jr., who gave the Angels superior defense and versatile offense in his debut season after signing a five-year free-agent deal last winter.

Matthews becomes a chess piece for Scioscia, capable of playing all three outfield spots and also occupying a revolving designated hitter role with the likes of Guerrero, Garret Anderson, Hunter, Juan Rivera, Robb Quinlan and Reggie Willits.

Exclusively a center fielder in 2007, Matthews played 1,144 innings. He could reach or even exceed that number this season, but it will be divided between three positions.

This gives the Angels four weapons for four slots in the lineup, including the DH -- with Willits, Rivera, Quinlan and Nathan Haynes waiting in the wings.

Clearly, there is an embarrassment of riches in the Angels' outfield, giving them strength in numbers that could enhance their bargaining position should they attempt to swing a deal down the road.

Heading into Spring Training, Scioscia's early plan is to have Matthews hitting second, in front of Guerrero, Anderson and Hunter, with Chone Figgins leading off.

One of the benefits of keeping the DH slot open for a revolving door is that it figures to save wear and tear on Guerrero and Anderson, who formed a lethal tandem when the latter overcame a hip injury in the second half and showed he's still one of the game's most productive hitters.

"We have a lot of different options," Scioscia said. "One thing we know is Torii is going to be in center. Gary will have no problem absorbing the corners and playing center if Torii needs a day [off]. Vlad and Garret will see more DH days.

"The bottom line is keeping those four bats together as much as possible."

Guerrero, an All-Star starter, won the Home Run Derby in San Francisco and delivered another superlative season, finishing third in the AL MVP voting. He hit .324 with 27 homers and 125 RBIs, batting .354 with runners in scoring position and .500 with the bases loaded. No wonder he led the AL in intentional walks for the third straight year with 28.




Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim


&bull; Catchers: Napoli back from injury
&bull; Corner IF: Unconventional on corners
&bull; Middle IF: Young duo up the middle
&bull; Outfielders: A star-studded mix
&bull; Starters: Angels' staff even deeper
&bull; Bullpen: K-Rod anchors top 'pen
&bull; DH/Bench: Embarrassment of riches




Anderson, who sustained a tear in his right hip flexor in April that cost him 46 games, rebounded with a monster second half. He was fifth in the Majors in RBIs after the break with 65 in 67 games, featuring a 10-RBI eruption against the Yankees and a club-record 12 straight games with an RBI.

Matthews' season was the reverse of Anderson's, a strong first half (.279, 10 homers, 43 RBIs) undone by second-half leg injuries. Showing the rare ability to lead off or bat cleanup, Matthews was close to his first 20-20 season with 18 homers and 18 steals and could get there in 2008.

Hunter was ecstatic about the prospect of joining that star-studded outfield.

"Yes, definitely," he said, asked if it's potentially the best unit he's been part of in his Major League career. "Garret Anderson, Gary Matthews Jr., Vladimir Guerrero. Man!

"Vladimir Guerrero is one of my favorite players. I get a chance to play next to him and hit in the same lineup with the guy. I get to see Vladimir Guerrero play every day, and Garret Anderson, I respect his game. I'll get to watch him, learn every day in HD. It's gonna be a lot of fun."

Friends for years, Hunter and Matthews got together soon after Torii joined the cast. Matthews assured his old buddy that he's on board with the new plan, eager to pursue a championship after a frustrating end to his 2007 season.

A knee ailment that bothered him throughout the second half left Matthews inactive for the AL Division Series, forcing him to watch a depleted Angels offense fizzle in a sweep by the Red Sox.

Guerrero was playing through a painful left shoulder, while Anderson's vision was diminished by a right eye problem.

Their exceptional depth significantly alleviates concerns about injury issues dragging the offense down this season.

Rivera, a force before suffering a leg fracture playing winter ball after the 2006 season, figures to be back in the form that enabled him to hit 23 homers and drive in 85 runs while batting .310 in 124 games in '06.

Willits emerged as a vital catalyst alongside Figgins in the 2007 attack during Anderson's absence, finishing fifth in the AL Rookie of the Year balloting. Willits, like Matthews, can handle all three outfield spots capably and is a patient hitter with exceptional speed.

Haynes, in limited opportunities, showed a skill set similar to Willits' and is also a plus defender with blazing speed.

Now into the mix comes Hunter, another aggressive baserunner who had 18 steals in 2007 while putting together a career-best 23-game hitting streak.

"I'm that guy who can change the game," Hunter said. "I'm a little bit of everything. I wouldn't say I'm the big bat -- Vladimir is the big bat. I'm a player, not a hitter."

This is a team with players, and hitters, all across a celestial outfield.






