
ANAHEIM -- When he was in sixth grade in Arcadia, about 45 minutes northwest of his new home ballpark, Shea Hillenbrand and his classmates were asked to dress up as famous people for a special project. The usual assortment of presidents, actors and actresses showed up. Shea? He came as his favorite ballplayer.
"I dressed up as Steve Sax," a grinning Hillenbrand said from the home dugout at Angel Stadium before Saturday night's Interleague game against the Dodgers. "I just loved the way the guy played, sprinting to first base after a walk, playing the game all-out all the time. That's the way I modeled myself, to be that type of player."
The Hillenbrands moved to Southern California from his native Arizona when Shea was 3 months old, staying until he was 14. From the blue seats high above the Dodger Stadium playing surface, Shea cheered for Sax, and he also rooted for Mickey Hatcher and Alfredo Griffin and the big guy behind the plate, Mike Scioscia.
Funny how things turn out.
Scioscia is now Hillenbrand's manager, patiently waiting for his player to return to form, and Hatcher is the hitting coach laboring behind the scenes to get the Angels' new DH in a comfortable hitting stance and frame of mind.
There are signs that Hillenbrand, hitting .236, is emerging from a baffling slump. He batted .273 on a 5-2 trip through Texas and Seattle, and he was 2-for-3 with a double and two RBIs in a 9-1 Angels romp in the first game of Interleague Play against the Dodgers on Friday night.
"I don't know what it is," Hillenbrand said of his history of hurting the team of his childhood. A .327 career hitter against the Dodgers, he'll never forget his first Interleague game at Dodger Stadium in 2002 when he was Boston's third baseman.
"I was batting against Hideo Nomo," Hillenbrand said, "and I was 4-for-4 with two homers, a double and a single. It was like an out-of-body experience. I remember looking up in that blue section where we used to sit. I always loved that atmosphere in Dodger Stadium."
There were 46,179 fans in Chavez Ravine that June 21, 2002, night, and most of them went home happy despite Hillenbrand's mammoth night, which included the homer against reliever Giovanni Cabrera. The Dodgers beat the Red Sox, 3-2, with Hillenbrand getting three of the five hits allowed by Nomo.
In the small world department, Nomar Garciaparra, now the Dodgers' All-Star first baseman, was playing shortstop alongside Hillenbrand, and Angels reliever Darren Oliver pitched that night for the Sox. Boston's manager in 2002? Grady Little, now leading the Dodgers.


Complete coverage &gt;  

 Kendrick makes case:  Howard Kendrick homered and drove in four runs for Triple-A Salt Lake in a 12-5 win at Fresno on Friday. Kendrick is working to develop strength and confidence in his left hand, weakened by a broken bone in the middle finger when he was hit by a pitch from Oakland's Chad Gaudin on April 17.
Scioscia is hopeful Kendrick -- hitting .327 and playing excellent defense when he was injured -- will be back with the Angels on a road trip that opens on Tuesday in Detroit. Kendrick is expected to play through the weekend and then be evaluated.
Brandon Wood homered right behind Kendrick, and Nathan Haynes continued his torrid hitting with a double and single, his average a Pacific Coast League-leading .403. Kasey Olenberger ran his record to 5-1 with six innings of work, yielding five earned runs to lift his ERA to 3.40. Matt Willhite shaved his ERA to 2.88 with two scoreless innings of relief.

 Sticking with Santana:  Denying that the club entertained any thoughts of demoting Ervin Santana during his recent struggles, Scioscia was delighted with Santana's lively stuff and demeanor in yielding only one run in six innings on Friday night, pushing his record to 3-5.
"Ervin had terrific stuff," Scioscia said. "If he takes that same stuff on the road, he'll win some games." Santana is 0-4 on the road this season and 9-15 in his career compared to 22-6 at home.
There should be no doubts about Santana's ability. Only Cy Young Award winner Johan Santana of Minnesota among AL starters yielded fewer hits per nine innings than the Angels right-hander last season -- 7.16 by Johan, 7.99 by Ervin. What's more, only Johan Santana held opponents to a lower batting average than Ervin's .241. The Angels' Santana also was ninth in lowest on-base percentage allowed (.311) and ninth in lowest slugging percentage yielded (.395). These are all excellent gauges of the quality of pitches delivered, putting the 24-year-old Santana in the elite class.

 Short hops:  Told he appeared to have excellent hops in making a leaping stab to rob Andre Ethier of a hit on Friday night, Angels first baseman Casey Kotchman called it "an optical illusion." ... Reggie Willits has hit safely in 13 of 14 games and 23 of 25, batting .387 in his last 93 at-bats. ... The Angels are 18-2 when Gary Matthews Jr. scores at least one run, 7-15 when he doesn't.

 Up next:  Kelvim Escobar (4-2, 3.35 ERA) faces Derek Lowe (4-4, 3.90) ERA in the finale of the three-game series at Angel Stadium on Sunday at 12:35 p.m. PT.






