
ANAHEIM -- It was a night of uncommonly loud noises by an Angels offense that seems intent on muffling its outspoken critics.
Manager Mike Scioscia's troupe looked like Murderers Row in dismantling Minnesota, 16-3, on Monday night in front of 37,380 at Angel Stadium. There were four homers, matching a season best, and the 23 hits and 16 runs were season highs.
The beneficiary was Jered Weaver, who worked seven efficient innings, dismissing Twins hitters along with a back irritation that had troubled him recently.
Gary Matthews Jr.'s third career grand slam highlighted an eight-run eighth inning, giving the center fielder 28 RBIs in his past 26 games. Season-long cries for a loud bat behind Vladimir Guerrero apparently have been answered by the former leadoff man.
"Everybody talks about, `Where's the big bat?'" Matthews said. "Collectively, if this team's healthy, we've got guys who can hit. We can score some runs."
Here are the batting averages of five Angels regulars: .324, .329, .357, .296 and .309. They belong, respectively, to Reggie Willits, Orlando Cabrera, Guerrero, Matthews and Casey Kotchman.
Coming off his walk-off, two-run homer against Baltimore on Sunday, Guerrero doubled, singled twice, drove in two runs and was walked intentionally twice.
Cabrera equaled his career high with four hits, driving home two runs while scoring four, and leadoff catalyst Willits had three hits, scoring twice and driving home a pair.
Kotchman, Mike Napoli and Garret Anderson joined Matthews in the home run derby.
"The top of the lineup is the whole key," said Napoli, who lined a pair of singles to go with his two-run blast in the sixth. "It starts with Willits and Cabrera. When they're getting on base, they have to pitch to Vladdy and Matthews. You can't pitch around them if those guys are on base."
While the top four were reaching base a total of 16 times against losing pitcher Boof Bonser (4-2) and three relievers, Anderson joined the party with a solo blast to right-center behind Matthews' slam to the same location. Both came against lefty Jason Miller, who was torched for eight earned runs in one-third of an inning.
"It was good to see Garret get in his groove," Scioscia said. "It's not just Gary behind Vlad; it's Kotch and Garret and the other guys, too."
Torii Hunter's booming homer to center -- his 12th -- was the only blemish for Weaver, who dismissed concerns about his lower back that originated in Texas three weeks ago.
"Awesome," is how Napoli described Weaver. "He threw strikes, had his changeup working, commanded the zone."
The back "was a little tight, and in certain moments it kind of bothered me," Weaver said. "But it should be all right."
Weaver survived a rough patch in the second and third innings, leaving two runners stranded in each inning.
Weaver then settled into a groove, retiring 12 of the 13 hitters he faced from the fourth through the seventh.
The one Twin to reach base in that stretch wasn't there for long. Luis Rodriguez singled with two outs in the fourth and was gunned down trying to stretch it by Matthews.
The Angels came out smoking with a run on three singles in the first against Bonser. Guerrero singled home Cabrera, who'd singled and stolen second, but Vlad was erased at third on Michael Cuddyer's strike after charging Matthews' single.
Guerrero was shot down again, this time at home by Cuddyer on a questionable call to end the fourth, the Angels coming up empty with three singles.
It was still 1-1 in the fifth when Willits laced a two-out double to the left-center gap. On Cabrera's ringing single to left, Willits beat Jason Kubel's strong throw. When Guerrero crushed a double to the left-center gap for his third hit, Cabrera raced home ahead of a quick and accurate relay.
A five-run sixth busted it open, starting with Kotchman's 3-0 blast to right-center for his sixth homer. After Howie Kendrick lashed a single, Napoli crushed another Bonser fastball to left for his seventh homer. Boof was done, having yielded six earned runs on 12 hits, watching his ERA soar to 4.12 from 3.61.
Showing no mercy against former Angels starter Ramon Ortiz, the Angels kept pounding away. Figgins singled, stole second and scored on Cabrera's third hit. After Guerrero was walked intentionally, Matthews ripped his third hit to left-center for an RBI.
"Hitting behind Vlad," Scioscia said, "he's going to hit with runners in scoring position, so it's a great spot for him. Gary's versatile enough and talented enough to hit there."
Guerrero, with 50 RBIs in 56 games, is on a pace that could yield a career high, surpassing the 131 runs he drove home for the 1999 Montreal Expos. His high for the Angels was 126 during his 2004 MVP season.
The Angels have won nine of 11, starting with their sweep of the Yankees in New York.






