
ANAHEIM -- Angels fans can rest easy.

Their team clearly isn't peaking too soon.

All the questions now involve their missing mojo -- specifically, where it went and how to get it back.

Their grim 9-0 loss on Friday night to the Twins in front of 43,819 at Angel Stadium continued a downward spiral. With two wins in the past nine games, the Angels are in their most dismal nine-game stretch of 2008, playing what manager Mike Scioscia called "our worst baseball of the season."

After performing at a remarkably high level for a month, from July 12 to August 12, the Halos hope this was rock bottom.

Glen Perkins (11-3) seized what was billed as a duel of southpaws, shutting out the Angels for eight innings while All-Star Joe Saunders was getting knocked around for six earned runs in 5 1/3 innings, falling to 14-6.

When Dennys Reyes, another lefty, put up a zero in the ninth for the Twins for a combined shutout with Perkins, it extended the run of futility to 20 consecutive innings by Scioscia's offense since Mark Teixeira's first-inning homer on Thursday night.

Scioscia assembled the troops after the blowout for a heart-to-heart clubhouse soul session. If there had been music accompanying the boss' pitch, it would have been Bruce Springsteen and "Hungry Heart."

"Two words: Stay hungry," Saunders said, summing up the theme of the night. "Don't be complacent. Play every game, day in, day out. It's the same message he's instilled every day. Stay hungry.

"We're a great team. We've got some special guys on this team. We're capable of playing great baseball in all areas -- pitching, defense, offense, everything. This team's in a funk right now. When we pitch, we can't hit. When we hit, we can't pitch. It's one of those things we have to battle through, shake off.

"Like Sosh said, this team's scary good. Watch out when we snap out of it. We just need that spark. Once that spark comes, this team's going to go off the way it has. It's going to be fun to watch."

The fun lately has been confined to the opposite dugout. An offense that steamrolled through July is spinning in traction again -- just 21 runs in the past eight games.

"It's not fun when you're playing poorly, but you have to reconnect with that passion," Scioscia said. "We're at our best when we're playing baseball and not worrying about things.

"There [are] some definite things that need to be cleaned up. If it's because of a focus issue, a distraction issue, that's the first thing we need to address. Our job is to keep that focus on playing a baseball game. I think we've been terrific at that until the last nine, 10 games."

Despite their recent struggles, the Angels arrived on Friday night with a 15-game lead over the Rangers in the American League West, having lost just a half-game in the standings while going 2-7.

Finding the edge and remaining highly motivated with such a huge cushion is the challenge they'll face heading down the stretch.

That is why Scioscia called a rare clubhouse meeting after the game, something he's done "a couple times this season," he said.

Only once this season has Saunders, an All-Star, been treated as rudely as he was by the surging Twins, who broke it open with five sixth-inning runs to claim first place in the American League Central by a half-game over the White Sox. The win was Minnesota's fourth in a row and ninth in the past 11.

Saunders, who yielded eight earned runs in 4 2/3 innings in a June 9 loss to the Rays, called his performance "pitiful," starting with not covering first on a leadoff bullet by Denard Span that Teixeira was unable to corral at first.

Delmon Young smacked a two-run homer in the fourth inning, giving the Twins the lead. Saunders departed after after three consecutive hits in the sixth, including an RBI double by Young. Right-hander Shane Loux served up a three-run homer to Span, his third hit of the game.

It looked like March in Arizona by the seventh inning, with bench players giving regulars some time off.

Juan Rivera had two of the Angels' six hits, with Erick Aybar's first-inning double the lone extra-base hit. Only three times did they put a runner in scoring position. If the offense was out to lunch, the defense was out of sync. Aybar committed two errors, and Scioscia alluded to a lack of continuity and crispness.

"Everybody goes through little funks," catcher Jeff Mathis said. "We know we've got to come out and play baseball. We're not looking at our lead and saying we can take a little break. That has nothing to do with it.

"We're just going through a little rough road and trying to get back on track."

The Angels will try to regroup on Saturday night behind Jon Garland, who faces Nick Blackburn.

Maybe Scioscia should pipe in "Hungry Heart," by his man, Springsteen. It couldn't hurt.






