
ANAHEIM -- When rap sensation and actor Ludacris saw an HBO "Real Sports" special on Torii Hunter's life, focusing on his youth in challenging circumstances in Pine Bluff, Ark.,  the artist wanted to reach out and make something happen with the Angels' center fielder.

"His people got together with my people," Hunter said on Wednesday, and the meeting is now bearing fruit in a project designed, Hunter said, to spread the word about baseball in the inner cities.

Forming a Web site called WeMix.com, Hunter and Christopher "Ludacris" Bridges created "WeMix Diamond Cut," a contest for the best original song made for an athlete. To the winner went the opportunity to record with Ludacris.

The jewel among more than 4,000 entries, Hunter said, is a song called "Luv of da game" by Ripchord, featuring Taser, soon to be Hunter's intro tune for his at-bats.

"It's a song they recorded with Ludacris," Hunter said. "It's a walk-up [to home plate] song -- innocent, a good song. It's awesome. These guys made it; it's their product. 'Ain't the glory of the fame, it's the love of the game.'

"I think it's going to be [debuted at Angel Stadium] Friday, Saturday -- whenever I'm able to get back on the field."

According to the Web site, the contest is designed to benefit baseball education for inner-city and rural youth through the Torii Hunter Project.

"As an an avid music enthusiast, I'm happy to team with WeMix.com to discover talented new artists and find a song that best reflects me," Hunter said. "I'm also excited about opening new avenues that support my efforts to encourage kids to play the game of baseball.

"The number of African-American Major League players has dramatically decreased over the last 10 years, and we're hoping that projects such as this will reverse that trend and get more minority kids into the game."

Ludacris and Hunter were interviewed together by various outlets on the Angel Stadium field before Wednesday's game against the Yankees. Hunter, who left Tuesday night's game with a quad ailment, did not play on Wednesday. He was serving the first game of a two-game MLB suspension for a spat with Yankees catcher Ivan Rodriguez on Monday night.

"I'm a huge fan of baseball and sports, and I truly support what Torii is doing through his foundation," Ludacris said. "This is a fantastic opportunity for WeMix to spread that positive message, excite fans around the country, and make great new music at the same time."






