
BALTIMORE -- That old baseball axiom about some of the best deals being the ones that aren't made rings true for Angels right-hander Justin Speier. If not for a desire to reside closer to his Paradise Valley, Ariz., home, Speier might be playing out the string with the Baltimore Orioles instead of preparing for the playoffs with the Angels.



"It was an aggressive offer" from Baltimore last offseason, Speier recalled Thursday before the Angels went for a three-game sweep of Baltimore at Camden Yards. "It was one I considered -- strongly. There were three or four East Coast teams interested in me, and [the Orioles] were one of the most interested."



The Orioles made Speier, coming off a 2-0 season with a 2.98 ERA in 58 games with Toronto, one of their primary offseason targets, discussing a three-year deal worth a reported $15 million. But Speier's decision to sign with the Angels, who offered a four-year, $18 million deal, was consummated early in free agency, and the Nov. 16 transaction solidified the Los Angeles bullpen and forced the Orioles to look elsewhere.



"It was a matter of wanting to be close to home -- I live in Arizona -- and being on a championship contender with the Angels," Speier said. "The Orioles made some moves, they added some good players, but this just seemed like the right place, the right decision."



Speier, who missed 64 games while on the disabled list for an intestinal infection from May 8-July 13, has gone 2-3 with a 3.12 ERA in 43 1/3 innings over 43 games. He has stranded 29 of 32 inherited runners, held the first batter he's faced to a .146 (6-for-41) average and limited opponents overall to a .203 (31-for-154) mark.



His success -- and the Orioles' willingness to spend money on middle relievers -- helped raise the profile of some of baseball's most critical role players. Spurned by Speier, Baltimore spent $42.5 million on relievers Danys Baez, Jamie Walker, Chad Bradford and Scott Williamson.



The results have been mixed -- during a 3-18 bender, the Baltimore bullpen has allowed 84 earned runs in 104 1/3 innings for a 7.25 ERA. Overall, Orioles relievers have an unsightly 6.08 ERA. Right-hander Bradford (3-7, 3.63) and lefty Walker (1-2, 2.91) have been steadying influences. Baez, a former closer in Tampa Bay, has had it rough, going 0-6 with a 6.44 ERA; Williamson battled injuries and was released midway through the season.



"GMs have to go out and get bats," Speier said. "Most GMs want an offensive explosion. But they're starting to understand that pitching wins baseball games. The value of a good setup guy or a good middle reliever is going to go up even more. GMs are starting to take notice of what we do and realizing that they can bolster a good bullpen."



Speier is having too much fun in a pennant race -- the Angels entered play Thursday with a 9 1/2-game lead over second-place Seattle in the American League West -- to wonder what might have been had he signed with Baltimore.



"It's been a great experience," said Speier, who has never been to the playoffs. "I'm having a blast."



Mending and mum: Center fielder Gary Matthews' sprained right ankle continues to improve. He was moving around the clubhouse Thursday without crutches, but still in a protective brace to immobilize the ankle and minimize swelling.



Matthews said he would not accompany the Angels to Chicago, instead flying back to Los Angeles to be examined by team doctors.



"I'm a quick healer," he said.



Manager Mike Scioscia said the severity of the ligament damage won't be known for at least another couple of days.



"He's walking around, but he obviously has a long way to go from moving around to getting out there to center field," Scioscia said.



Matthews, however, declined to address a Los Angeles Times Web report that he would be summoned by Major League Baseball officials to discuss an alleged shipment of human growth hormone. Matthews' name has come up in an investigation into Internet drug trafficking by Albany (N.Y.) district attorney David Soares. The allegations were first reported by SI.com seven months ago.



"No comment," Matthews said, adding that he would not speak on the subject for the remainder of the season.



Fair trade: Rookie infielder Brandon Wood, who hit his first career home run in the ninth inning Wednesday night, got the souvenir baseball from an Orioles fan, swapping a couple of autographed baseballs for the memento.



Wood drove a 1-1 Baez into the left-field stands for a two-run shot. The fan who grabbed it, one of the few remaining stalwarts in an announced crowd of 15,136, met Wood after the game and made the exchange. An usher approached the fan and traveling secretary Tom Taylor brokered the deal.



"I thought I had a pretty good chance," Wood said when asked if he immediately knew he'd gone deep.



Wood said he would put the ball on display in his loft pool room at his Scottsdale, Ariz., home.



The right stuff? Is he or isn't he? Only Chone Figgins knows for sure, and he seems to be trying to misdirect reporters who have heard that he's begun taking batting practice right-handed.



Figgins has hit almost exclusively from the left side since sustaining a sprained left wrist Aug. 21 that caused him to miss 14 games. One notable exception was Tuesday night, when he bunted for a base hit in the eighth inning against Baltimore's Kurt Birkins, a left-hander.



"Let's see if anyone picks up on that," he winked after the game. The next day, he said he had not taken any right-handed batting practice, despite published reports to the contrary. Scioscia stepped in Thursday to contradict his sizzling leadoff hitter, who is on a 9-for-13 tear.



"He's swinging right-handed in the cage and making some progress in that area," Scioscia said.



Coming up: Right-hander Bartolo Colon (6-6, 6.72 ERA) makes his first start since July 23 when the Angels open a three-game weekend series at Chicago on Friday at

5:11 p.m. PT. Right-hander Jose Contreras (8-16, 5.91 ERA) is scheduled to pitch for the White Sox.







