
ANAHEIM -- If starting pitchers could claim a mulligan and throw out one game each season, the Angels' Jered Weaver might just be inclined to toss out Sunday night's 6-2 loss to the Cleveland Indians.

Weaver went five innings, allowing six runs on nine hits and a walk with five strikeouts, vaulting his season ERA to 4.00 in the loss. The six earned runs allowed by the right-hander tied the highest total of his career, which he had previously done three other times this season.

Weaver started off well, facing the minimum through three innings, retiring Cleveland's first seven hitters in order and allowing only one hit, to Franklin Gutierrez, who was subsequently thrown out trying to steal second when he over slid the bag.

But the right-hander ran into trouble in the fourth when Indians center fielder Grady Sizemore led off with a bunt single to third base. Weaver would go on to give up five more hits in the inning, with the big blow coming on a three-run home run to left by Ryan Garko, as Cleveland batted around in the frame. When the damage finally ended, the Angels were down, 5-2, and Weaver had already thrown 73 pitches.

"I felt really good the first three innings," said Weaver, "but I just ran into a roadblock in the fourth. That one bad pitch to Garko, it's just one of those things where you wish you could get the pitch back, but now, unfortunately, I have to wait five days to recover."

Aside from Weaver's poor fourth inning, the offense couldn't get much of anything going, and ended up 0-for-9 on the night with runners in scoring position.

"Tonight's game -- 0-for-9 with runners in scoring position -- that was the story offensively," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said.

The Halos offense did its only damage of the game early on against Indians southpaw Aaron Laffey, scoring one run in each of the first two innings. Orlando Cabrera and Maicer Izturis were at second and third in the bottom of the first inning after a single by each and a groundout by Garret Anderson moved them over. Howie Kendrick hit a ball up the middle, which Cleveland shortstop Jhonny Peralta cut off, but threw wide to first base, pulling Garko off the bag and allowing Izturis to score the initial run of the game on the shortstop's error.

Angels catcher Mike Napoli returned to the starting lineup for the first time in more than a month and accounted for the only other Angels run, hitting a sacrifice fly to left in the bottom of the second inning. But the catcher had a forgetful night at the plate after his initial plate appearance, grounding into a double play to end the fourth and striking out in his final two at-bats, leaving four runners on base. Napoli was the Halos starting catcher for the first four months of the season but had been out with an injury to his right hamstring.

The bullpen, which threw four scoreless innings in relief of Weaver, was a major bright spot for the Angels. Darren Oliver accounted for two of those scoreless frames and was on the receiving end of a throw from Kotchman on a terrific stop by the first baseman that retired Sizemore to lead off the seventh inning. Oliver has not allowed an earned run in 29 of his last 34 outings.

Relievers Chris Bootcheck and Francisco Rodriguez pitched a perfect eighth and ninth, respectively, striking out two hitters apiece.

With Seattle's win earlier in the day, the Angels lead in the American League's Western Division was trimmed to eight games. Their magic number to clinch the division crown remains at 13.

The Angels offense should get a boost on Tuesday when they open a three-game series at Baltimore, as right fielder Vladimir Guerrero is expected to return to the lineup.






