
After spending the previous 15 years in the Twins' organization, Torii Hunter found himself in an unfamiliar situation in 2008 -- trying to get comfortable with a new team.



But it didn't take long for Hunter to fit right in with the Angels, as he had a breakout game just eight matchups into the season that set tone for the rest of the year.



Hunter hit two home runs against the Indians, including a game-winning grand slam off closer Joe Borowski in the ninth inning, to lift the Angels to a dramatic 6-4 win at Angel Stadium on April 7. And now fans have a chance to relive the game.



Every day until Spring Training, MLB.com/Live will air a classic game on Baseball's Best. Hunter's heroics can be seen Tuesday at noon PT. 



Hunter was still looking to make his mark with the Angels after signing a five-year, $50 million contract in the offseason. Playing with different teammates at a different park in front of different fans was something Hunter hadn't experienced since his rookie season in 1997.



But Hunter handled the transition well, and it showed against the Indians early in the season.



Hunter looked to be the game's hero in the eighth inning when he gave the Angels a one-run lead with a blast off Tribe reliever Rafael Betancourt.



During the game, it appeared to be an old-fashioned pitchers' duel, as both Joe Saunders and Fausto Carmona had hurled brilliantly. Saunders allowed just one run over eight innings, while Carmona allowed one run over six innings.



But the Angels' one-run lead was not to be, as closer Francisco Rodriguez had an unusual breakdown in the ninth inning. K-Rod allowed a walk, and then Victor Martinez doubled home a run to tie the game. Rodriguez proceeded to allow another run-scoring double before walking a batter and giving way to Scot Shields.



Shields allowed one of the inherited runners to score, and the damage was done. The Angels were down, 4-2, and it appeared to be a come-from-behind victory for Cleveland.



But the Angels rallied in the bottom of the ninth inning, and again it was Hunter who was the hero.



Gary Matthews Jr. started things off with a walk against Borowski before Vladimir Guerrero singled and Garret Anderson walked to load the bases.



Hunter then strode to the plate and didn't disappoint, crushing a 1-0 fastball high into the sky above left field to give the Angels a 6-4 win.



Hunter came out for a curtain call after the home run and acknowledged his new fan base.



"That's me as a human being," Hunter said after the game. "I've been in the big leagues too long to put any pressure on myself. I want the team to trust me. I want the fans to know me. I'm going to do what I do. Whatever I did in the past, that's what I'm going to be. Ain't gonna be nothing more or nothing less. So I'm excited for this to happen."



The game served as a forecast for what was to come, as the Angels rallied all season to the tune of 100 wins and the Indians spiraled to an 81-81 record -- finishing third in the American League Central.






