
ANAHEIM -- Just look at a quick translation of Francisco Rodriguez's entrance song to see what motivates this young closer.

The words, written by Puerto Rican reggaeton artist Tego Calderon, fuel Rodriguez in his daily goal to nail down his team's victories:

"I'm going to come and take care of business my way, I'm just trying to do my job."

Though, that job just happens to be the most pressure-packed in all of baseball.

It's a job he once tackled by just throwing hard with dazzling movement on his pitches. Since he became the Angels' closer last season, Rodriguez has gone about his business with the same jaw-dropping stuff, yet now with a heightened sense of maturity.

He's not just trying to simply get batters out anymore. Well, he's still getting them out with ease -- it's just he's analyzing what his opponents are looking to do, and pitching them accordingly.

"I've started to realize a little more of the details, and that has made me a better ballplayer," Rodriguez, 24, said. "Game situations, like when somebody wants to get on base, when somebody wants to get a base hit or when somebody just wants to tie the game with a home run."

Last year, there were times at which Rodriguez appeared raw as a closer, none more so than during an August game in Oakland. Upset with a call on his previous pitch, he unassumingly stabbed at catcher Jose Molina's toss back to the mound and dropped it. The mistake allowed the A's to score the winning run and temporarily take control of first place in the American League West.

Rodriguez, who said he was "embarrassed" following that gaffe, has shown few, if any, signs in his second go-around that he can't handle the ninth-inning role.

He learned much of his philosophy from Troy Percival, the most famed closer in Angels history. Rodriguez's potential was the reason the Angels chose not to re-sign their all-time save leader after the 2004 season, but Percival didn't leave without imparting wisdom on his young apprentice.

"When I came up I had no clue to think or pay attention to those little details," Rodriguez said. "What you realize is when you learn from a guy who has over 300 saves in Major League Baseball, everything is going to be easier."

Rodriguez is one of baseball's premier strikeout pitchers, yet he's learned when to strive for the punchout and when to just let the batter get himself out.

Take Saturday's save against the Mariners. Entering with men on first and third with one out and the Angels ahead by three, Rodriguez knew all he had to do was let Ben Broussard put the ball in play. The plan ended up backfiring as Broussard hit a double, putting the tying run on second. That brought up a situation where Rodriguez realizes a closer has to deliver a pair of strikeouts.

He took care of Yuniesky Betancourt in five pitches and then, careful not to give Chris Snelling anything he could drive, delivered three straight strikes after falling behind in the count 3-0 to clinch the victory.

He finished that game with his out pitch, a devious throw that has made him one of baseball's most frustrating closers to face. The pitch is so tough to hit because it's not quite a slider yet it's not quite a curveball.

It begins on the same plane as his fastball, then drops off at the final second. It's really two pitches in one, though, dependent on how Rodriguez releases it. When the closer throws it over the top, batters think it's a hard curveball, and when he drops down sideways, it looks like a hard slider.

Whatever the pitch is, not many have been able to hit it since Rodriguez made a name for himself -- and a nickname: K-Rod -- during the Angels' world championship run in 2002.

"To have the stuff that he does, it's pretty intimidating to their teams when he can throw the fastball, or the curveball or the slider --  whatever you want to call it -- for strikes," Angels corner infielder Robb Quinlan said. "It's usually a 1-2-3 inning, so it's just great to have him out there on the mound and we're lucky to have him."

That maturity has paid off. Rodriguez is tied for second in the Majors with 34 saves. With seven more saves this season, he'll reach 100 for his career.

He hasn't allowed a run since June 26 and has given up just one earned run in his last 26 outings, resulting in sparkling 0.33 ERA.

Though, in his second season as the Angels closer, not everything has come so easily.

There was an end to his club-record 22 straight saves on April 19 against the Twins, plus Rodriguez had an uncharacteristic ERA over 4.00 at the onset of June. Even still, the Venezuelan native has blown only three saves this year, including closing the door in six of his team's last 10 games.

"I don't want to call them struggles -- he's only had a couple of tough outings," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "He's throwing the ball as well as we've ever seen him and that's really important to us."

He's throwing the ball so well that teammate Chone Figgins doesn't hesitate to say he never believes Rodriguez is going to blow a save.

The same goes for fans at Angel Stadium. When they hear Calderon's Latino rhythm, a loss is the last image to go through their heads.

Catchers Bengie and Jose Molina were the ones who selected that entrance song for Rodriguez. At the closer's request a couple of years ago, they scoured their IPod and found a beat that fit Rodriguez's liking and words that he's played by his whole career.

"When you go in there with the game on the line, you have to get them out, you have to do the job," he said. "That's my goal."






