
ANAHEIM -- To get past the Angels, one must go through the bullpen -- and the Yankees are finding a series of closed doors.

Three of them to be precise, as the hallway to victory for the Halos reads Brendan Donnelly, Scot Shields and Francisco Rodriguez.

The power trio provides the Angels one of the stingiest contingent of relievers in the American League, and first place in the AL West would be merely a pipedream without them.

Called on to rescue a tiring John Lackey in the sixth inning, Donnelly stranded the bullpen's 61st runner this season, tops in the league, and the triumvirate held serve with 3 2/3 scoreless innings to help the Angels roll a 6-3 win over the Yankees and go two up in the four-game series.

The win also allowed the Angels to maintain their 6-1/2 game lead in the American League West over the A's, who were 11-10 winners in Texas earlier in the evening.

"We'd definitely not be in the spot we're in," manager Mike Scioscia said of his relievers. "We feel good about what we've established. They just keep taking the ball and doing the job."

Rodriguez gets the credit most nights, as he's the one who notches the saves, now counting 23 out of 25 opportunities and a streak that stands at 12 straight. But it's the other two that bridge the gap between the starter and the ninth inning, a lifeline that is critical to success.

"You have to set that up for the closer, and there are as many games lost in the seventh and eighth innings as there are in the ninth," Scioscia said. "You have to have three closers, and I think we have that."

Rodriguez, who cut his teeth setting up for Troy Percival before taking over as the full-time closer this season, believes they're all just links of the same chain.

"Without them, I don't think I would have the saves," Rodriguez said. "To hand the ball to me, you have to get through them. It makes it easier to come in from the bullpen after they've thrown two or three innings."

Donnelly came on in the sixth with one down and Alex Rodriguez at first after a leadoff single. The right-hander struck out Jason Giambi, then induced a fly ball to center from Jorge Posada.

After allowing a single and a walk to open the seventh, Donnelly got two outs when Derek Jeter bounced into a fielder's choice and Robinson Cano popped up to first. With Gary Sheffield coming to the plate, Scioscia called on Shields. The right-hander retired the Yankees slugger on a fly ball to center.

"You can't say enough about Scot Shields. He's our most valuable pitcher," Scioscia said. "He can close; he's resilient. He helps you to shorten a game, and you need that to get to your goal."

Rodriguez then cleaned up with a perfect ninth.

"We weren't able to produce tonight the way we've been producing," Yankees manager Joe Torre said. "I give them a lot of credit for that."

Aside from the success of their bullpen, the Angels simply have success against the Yankees. Since 1996, the Halos have a winning record against the storied franchise. While the mark is just a tick above .500 (47-45), the Angels are the only team that can lay claim to that stat over that time frame.

On Thursday, the Angels used some heroics when Vladimir Guerrero hit a grand slam and Rodriguez thwarted a ninth-inning rally to open the four-game series.






"We're not scared of anybody. We go out and play hard no matter who we're playing."




-- Angels closer Francisco Rodriguez




For an encore on Friday night, the Angels used a steady diet of singles, 10 of them, and posted four runs on the board in the second.

Bengie Molina singled to lead off the inning, and he was joined on the bases by his brother Jose, who collected a one-out knock. Maicer Izturis appeared to drill a double down the left-field line, but the ball was ruled foul by third base umpire Larry Young. Izturis then walked to load the bases.

Adam Kennedy followed with a two-run single that scored both Molinas as Jose hustled home to beat the throw from Sheffield.

"They play baseball; they love to play," Scioscia said of the backstop brothers. "They like being in the lineup together, and they feed off each other."

Chone Figgins then drove in Izturis with a single to center. Kennedy went to third on the play, then scored on a throwing error by Yankees starter Al Leiter.

"It was good to get up early against their offense," Kennedy said of the Yankees, who hit four homers on Thursday.

Jose Molina singled in a run in the third, and Darin Erstad added some insurance with an RBI single in the sixth.

"We're not scared of anybody," Rodriguez said. "We go out and play hard no matter who we're playing."

The Yankees scored an unearned run off Lackey in the second, compounded by a mental fielding mistake by Kennedy and a throwing error by Jose Molina. Hideki Matsui and Cano also each drove in a run.

Lackey (8-4) allowed three runs -- two earned -- on five hits and two walks over 5 1/3 innings. He also struck out seven as he picked up his second straight win and second over the Yankees this season. Leiter (4-8) allowed six runs on 10 hits and two walks to take the loss.






