
Dominican Winter League

Licey 10, Gigantes 9, 18 innings
Angels shortstop Erick Aybar completed the cycle by tripling in the 18th inning, then scored on a sacrifice fly by Nationals infielder Anderson Hernandez as the Tigres outlasted the Gigantes. Pirates farmhand Ronny Paulino went 4-for-6 with two homers and three RBIs for Licey, while Rangers outfielder Nelson Cruz collected three hits in a losing cause. Box score

Escogido 6, Azucareros 4
After allowing just one hit to Escogido through six scoreless innings in which he faced the minimum, Azucareros starter Omar Beltre walked the first three batters of the seventh. All three went on to score, aided by a triple from Royals catcher Miguel Olivo, as Escogido pulled away to win the seventh of its last 10 games despite being out-hit 11-6.Box score

Aguilas 5, Estrellas 3
A wild pitch by Estrellas reliever Carlos Jan sent home the go-ahead run in the bottom of the eighth inning as Aguilas improved to 13-7 at home. Blue Jays farmhand Hector Luna hit his sixth homer of the season, a solo shot in the fifth inning, for Aguilas. Basement-dwelling Estrellas fell to a league-worst 3-15 on the road. Box score


Puerto Rican Winter League

Caguas 14, Ponce 6
Garrett Guzman went 3-for-4 with three RBIs and fellow Nationals outfield prospect Justin Maxwell hit his league-leading sixth homer, a three-run shot, as the Criollos crushed the Leones. Major League veteran Raul Casanova hit a two-run shot and Tigers catching prospect Dusty Ryan added an RBI single for Ponce. Box score

Arecibo 9, Santurce 3
Dodgers farmhand Rene Rivera and Jose Leon hit two-run homers and Reds prospect Chris Heisey went 2-for-4 with an RBI and two runs scored as the first-place Lobos handed the Cangrejeros their third straight loss. Luis Lopez homered for Santurce. Box score

Mayaguez 5, Carolina 3
Julius Matos homered and drove in three runs and Wilfredo Quintana went 2-for-4 with a two-run homer in the Indios' sixth straight win. Former Major Leaguer Armando Rios slugged a two-run homer for the Gigantes. Box score


Venezuelan Winter League

Lara 14, Aragua 13
Jose Lopez went 3-for-4 with a homer, four RBIs and four runs scored and fellow Mariner Mike Morse added a three-run shot as the Cardenales outslugged the Tigres. Braves infielder Martin Prado had two hits and four RBIs, while Rays catching prosepect Hector Gimenez went 3-for-5 with two RBIs and two runs scored for Aragua.  Box score

Magallanes 4, Caracas 2
Rangers prospect Elvis Andrus homered, drove in two runs and scored twice and Major League veteran Jay Gibbons homered as the last-place Navegantes surprised the first-place Leones. Blue Jays infielder Marco Scutaro homered and Indians outfielder Franklin Gutierrez singled and scored for Caracas. Box score

Zulia 3, Caribes 0
Former Minor Leaguer Jan Granado allowed three hits over six shutout innings and former South Atlantic League All-Star Arturo Rivas went 2-for-4 with an RBI as the Aguilas won their third straight. Red Sox prospect Carlos Vasquez struck out three in two innings of scoreless relief for the Caribes. Box score

Margarita at La Guaira, postponed


Mexican Pacific League

Mazatlan 2, Hermosillo 1
Angels prospect Miguel Gonzalez allowed two hits over five shutout innings and Rays farmhand Jon Weber hit a two-run homer as the Venados remained perfect on the road in the second half. Former Major Leaguer Erubiel Durazo homered for the Naranjeros. Box score

Guasave 6, Navojoa 5
Dionys Cesar homered and drove in four runs and Luis Borges went 3-for-3 as the Algodoneros edged the Mayos. Raul Lopez had a pair of RBIs for Navojoa. Box score

Mexicali 9, Culiacan 6
Major League veteran Oscar Robles had two hits, including a two-run homer, and two runs scored and former Pacific Coast League All-Star Derrick White went 3-for-3 with a solo shot for the Aguilas. Gonzalo Meza collected four hits and Dodgers infielder Chin-Lung Hu slugged a two-run homer for Culiacan. Box score

Obregon 7, Mochis 2
Former Braves farmhand Iker Franco homered twice and drove in five runs and Minor League veteran Reggie Taylor hit a pair of solo shots as the Yaquis overpowered the Caneros. Former Midwest League All-Star Agustin Murillo had three hits for Obregon, while Ramon Orantes homered for Los Mochis. Box score






