
ANAHEIM -- Chone Figgins has been dropped to the bottom of the Angels batting order, but he took top billing Tuesday.

The center fielder delivered the key hit with a two-out, walk-off single in the bottom of the 11th inning that propelled the Angels to a 4-3 victory over the White Sox.

It was the seventh walk-off hit for the Angels this season and the second for Figgins, but the latest victory could go down as the hit that saved the season.

Earlier in the night, the A's blew a two-run lead in Minnesota and dropped their second straight game to the Twins, providing an ample opportunity for the Angels to make a move.

"It was big," Figgins said.

Lately, the Angels have essentially run in place. Every time the A's would lose, the Angels followed suit. They were forced to scratch for wins so they wouldn't lose any more ground in a season that has just 17 games remaining.

But the Angels have managed to trim their deficit in the American League West to 4 1/2 games behind Oakland, the closest they have been since they were five games back on Aug. 23.

The win also held the Angels' number for elimination in the division at 14 games. Any combination of wins by the A's or losses by the Angels adding up to that number will end any chances of the club three-peating as AL West champs. Their number for elimination in the Wild Card chase fell to 11 with the Twins' victory.

"We're going to have our chances ahead of us to catch Oakland if we keep playing well," manager Mike Scioscia said of his team that has won nine of its past 12 games. "You can't exhale; you have to focus on your challenge."

Focusing on the challenges set before him has been Figgins, who had been the Angels' leadoff hitter all season long until a lineup shuffle last week. Figgins has been slotted ninth in favor of Maicer Izturis in the top spot, which allows Vladimir Guerrero to bat third.

The move was intended to take some pressure off Figgins, who is hitting .256 this season after hitting .290 or better the past two years. But with the Angels posting a 4-2 record since the change, it is likely to remain in place.

"It takes longer to get up to bat, but it doesn't bother me," Figgins said. "As long as I'm getting opportunities to play and the team is winning."

Garret Anderson started the game-winning rally with a single to lead off the 11th. After Tommy Murphy went in as a pinch-runner, Reggie Willits batted for Robb Quinlan and advanced Murphy to second with a sacrifice. Adam Kennedy then batted for Jose Molina but was intentionally walked.

With Howie Kendrick at the plate, the Angels seemingly blew their fourth chance in the late innings to take the lead or win the game outright when Kendrick hit a slow roller to short that looked like an inning-ending double play. But Kennedy went in hard at second base and Tadahito Iguchi's throw was late at first, allowing Kendrick to reach and Murphy to advance to third.

"I think the biggest play of the night before Figgy's hit was [Kennedy] breaking up the double play," Scioscia said.

Figgins said it was just a matter of the Angels playing their game.

"That didn't surprise me," Figgins said. "Garret getting the hit, Reggie getting the bunt down, Kennedy breaking up the double play, that's just how we play. We play hard."

With Murphy on third base and the inning alive because of Kennedy's aggressive play and Kendrick's hustle, Figgins lofted a pitch from White Sox closer Bobby Jenks into center for the winning hit.

Jenks (3-4) took the loss and Hector Carrasco (5-3) picked up the win after tossing two scoreless innings of relief. Starters Ervin Santana and Mark Buehrle each allowed three runs over seven innings but finished with no-decisions.

"It's not the first item he's done it," said Kennedy of Figgins. "We have a group of guys that, no matter how they are swinging the bat at times, they have it inside them to put a good at-bat together at the right time, and Chone is definitely one of them."

Juan Rivera put the Angels on the board in the bottom of the first when he reached low for the 1-1 offering from Buehrle for his 22nd home run this season, a two-run shot, and first since Aug. 22 against the Red Sox.

The White Sox later used a three-run fifth to take their only lead of the game when Rob Mackowiak hit an RBI single and Iguchi knocked in a pair with a base hit to left. Anderson pulled the Angels even in the sixth with a shallow pop fly to left that fell in, but the night was nearly about the lost opportunities.

Kendrick doubled into the right-field corner with one out in the seventh, but Figgins stuck out and Izturis grounded to short to end the inning. Orlando Cabrera then doubled sharply to left to lead off the eighth, but after Vladimir Guerrero was walked intentionally, Rivera hit into a double play and Anderson flied to right to end the threat.

In the bottom of the 10th, Cabrera singled to left with one out and went to second on a wild pitch. Guerrero earned his second intentional pass of the night, but Rivera swung at the first pitch and bounced into an inning-ending double play.

The Sox appeared on the cusp of taking the lead in the top of the ninth when Paul Konerko worked a one-out walk off Francisco Rodriguez. A.J. Pierzynski lined a single to right that Guerrero misplayed, and the ball sailed over his head to put runners on the corners. But Rodriguez proved why he's baseball's leading closer.

Rodriguez struck out Joe Crede and then engaged Rob Mackowiak in a nine-pitch battle, ultimately getting a ground ball to end the inning and extending his scoreless streak to 29 1/3 innings.

"We had a lot of opportunities. It seemed like we would get something going and then we'd hit into the double-play ball. But we kept going," Scioscia said. "Figgy's hit was big. Sometimes it only takes one."






