
KANSAS CITY -- The ball remained on the embankment beyond the waterfall in left center as the game wound on, the Angels pounding their way to a 7-5 victory over the Royals behind Bartolo Colon and a superb collective effort from a bullpen anchored by Francisco Rodriguez.

After it was over, the Angels having won for the fourth straight time and 10th in 12 games, Vladimir Guerrero was asked if he'd ever hit a ball farther than the one that landed near the commemorative No. 42, bearing Jackie Robinson's signature, beneath the Kauffman Stadium scoreboard.

"Yes," Guerrero said through interpreter Jose Mota, referencing his days as an Expo before coming to Southern California in 2004 as a free agent. "Against Mike Hampton, in Montreal, in 1999. That one was 502 feet."

Told that his manager, Mike Scioscia, put this one at 550 feet -- well beyond the ridiculously low estimate of 435 announced -- Guerrero smiled broadly and then laughed.

But Scioscia, who matched Bill Rigney as the franchise leader in managerial wins with No. 625, was dead serious.

"If that ball wasn't 550 feet, I don't know what it was," Scisocia said. "It was crushed. That was hit about as far as anybody can hit one."

Guerrero's eighth homer of the season and fifth career grand slam followed successive singles by Gary Matthews Jr., Reggie Willits and Orlando Cabrera against Zack Greinke, who was trailing 4-0 before he got an out.

To Greinke's credit, and to the credit of his youthful teammates, it was far from over.

The Royals, scoring four times in the third with three coming on Mark Teahen's homer, made Bartolo Colon work for all 15 of his outs, the minimum required for a victory.

With Kansas City scoring five times against the man who had been dominant in his previous outing against Tampa Bay, the Angels managed to stay ahead throughout behind the persistence of Matthews (triple, double, two singles), Willits (double, two singles),  Cabrera (double, single) and Erick Aybar (double, single) leading a 13-hit assault.

"Bart's stuff looked good," Scioscia said. "He had to make some good pitches to keep the lead. I don't think he was quite as clean, quite as crisp, but his stuff was good. Bart's going to compete."

Colon had gone seven innings each of his first two outings, but 95 pitches made five his limit this time.

It took two perfect innings from Dustin Moseley -- shaving his staff-best ERA to 1.04 -- and a scoreless inning apiece from Scot Shields and Rodriguez to nail it down.

Working for the fourth day in a row, K-Rod won't go five days in a row, something he's never done. Scioscia said that will not happen under any conditions when the series resumes on Wednesday night.

"My velocity was there, my location was perfect, my breaking pitch was good, too," K-Rod said, having struck out two of the three men he faced for his 10th save. "I had everything working today. It's the first time I've felt pretty good in a while."

After Guerrero -- who has homered in each of Colon's three starts -- staked his buddy to the 4-0 lead, the Angels struck again in the second on Matthews' triple and Cabrera's RBI double.

The Royals stirred in the third. Tony Pena walked, and singles by David DeJesus and Esteban German produced a run before Teahen launched a three-run homer to right center. Suddenly it was a one-run game.

The Angels made it 6-4 in the fourth on Willits' double and Casey Kotchman's sacrifice fly after Guerrero was walked intentionally a second straight time.

The Royals responded with three straight two-out singles for a run, the last by German, in the bottom half. Matthews' double and Willits' RBI single made it 7-5 in the eighth, and the bullet-proof bullpen kept the Royals under wraps.

"We need to be more than Vlad, and we are," Scioscia said. "Even with Garret [Anderson] out, you saw the game Gary had. Reggie gave us a lift, and Aybar's staying hot. Orlando had a couple big hits. We're getting production throughout the lineup."

Scioscia wasn't crowing about his 625th win at the helm, calling it "an organizational milestone, not a personal milestone," while passing credit around to everyone but the guy in charge.

That's a good way for a manger to be asked to stick around a long time.






