
ANAHEIM -- Right-hander Shane Loux, who was called up by the Angels on Monday, thought he was done playing baseball professionally a year ago.



His contract with the Seattle Mariners was voided in the spring of 2007 after he had a procedure done to correct a genetic problem in his legs that affected his circulation.



"We had kind of a medical disagreement," Loux said. "They thought it was a risk. But really there was no risk, the problem was fixed."



Loux desperately wanted to keep pitching but couldn't find a job even after calling every friend, general manager and scouting director he knew. He decided to join a club in the independent league, but that didn't work out either, as he asked for his release when they tried to rush him into being a starter after he was used as a reliever to start the season.



So again, Loux was out of a job. In the meantime, he coached youth baseball and gave private pitching lessons before he finally landed a job as a high school baseball coach in Chandler, Ariz.



And then while teaching a student at the Velocity Sports Performance center in Gilbert, Ariz., Loux made a few pitches of his own, getting the attention of Rich Barker, who owned the facility.



"He asked me what was going on and I told him I couldn't get a job and was pitching in a beer league with some friends," Loux said. "He asked me to throw a couple more pitches and then he called a scout for the Angels, John Grazio, who I had a history with from high school and recognized my name."



The Angels gave Loux one month to get in shape before he had a tryout in front of various Angels scouts and farm system personnel. The workout went well and Loux was signed to a Minor League contract and was invited to the Minor League Spring Training camp.



Loux again impressed the Angels and made the starting rotation for Triple-A Salt Lake out of camp, which would have been good enough for him.

"It was beyond my expectations at the time," Loux said. "But then I went to Salt Lake and everything was good and got that passion back, relishing putting on my jersey every day."



Loux was solid at Salt Lake as he went 12-6 with a 3.98 ERA and was leading the Pacific Coast League in wins before his callup Monday.



And even though Loux has been primarily a starter throughout his 10-year Minor League career, including this season, he's happy with his role on the Angels as a long reliever.



"I'll be a mop-up guy and I understand that," Loux said. "I come up here with no expectations and appreciate the opportunity and look forward to pitching whether it's 7-0 or 1-1."



Loux is just happy to get his chance to prove himself at the Major League level. The fact that he'll be pitching for the team with the best record in baseball hasn't really sunk in yet.



"From where I was a year ago to right now, there's no better scenario," Loux said. "Someone called me and said, 'Congratulations on getting called up. You know you're going to pitch for the best team in baseball in a pennant run?' And I said, 'Wow, I guess I never really thought about that.' So it just adds to the feeling. It's awesome."






