
ANAHEIM -- The right triceps tendinitis that has bothered Vladimir Guerrero for most of September may prevent him from playing in right field for the foreseeable future, Angels manager Mike Scioscia said on Wednesday.

Guerrero initially sat out four games earlier in the month before returning to the lineup as the designated hitter. He said through interpreter Jose Mota that he's not willing to concede not playing right field in the postseason.

"There's still a long way off before that," Guerrero said. "My therapy has intensified and I hope that the therapy will give me a better idea of when I am able to throw freely."

But Guerrero said that his throwing has been limited at best.

"What I've been doing is very minimal. I wouldn't even call it throwing," Guerrero said. "It took me a couple of days to get used to the fact that I would be relegated to the [DH] role. I've had to try to find a routine that works for me. I know I'm going to be a DH right now, but I want to get back to right field."

The thought of losing Guerrero in the field isn't a delightful idea for Scioscia. The Angels have also been missing center fielder Gary Matthews Jr., who has missed the last seven games with a sprained right ankle.

"We'll take some time, and hopefully these aren't long-term things," Scioscia said. "Right now, we have the depth to absorb it, but you certainly don't want to be at less than full strength at this time of the year."

The Angels' best alternative in right field is switch-hitter Chone Figgins, who was rested against left-handed starter J.P. Howell on Wednesday because he is not yet hitting right-handed. Figgins suffered a bone bruise on his hand last month. Juan Rivera made the start in right field Wednesday afternoon and homered in his first at-bat.

Wood gets start: Brandon Wood got a start at third base Wednesday afternoon as a way of getting another right-handed bat in the lineup against Howell. Though he shuttled between Anaheim and Triple-A Salt Lake, Wood posted solid numbers, hitting .272 with 23 home runs and 77 RBIs in 111 games.

The Angels wanted Wood to work on slowing down his tempo in the box and relaxing his body this year.

"We talked about slowing my setup down when I go forward," Wood said. "I wouldn't pick up pitches and I would swing at bad pitches. It was a little bit both mental and mechanical. The mechanics [require that] I have to slow things down. Mentally, I have to be aware of it."

Wood said he felt like he made progress with the adjustments the Angels wanted him to make. He said he also benefited from his brief big league time.

"I think having the opportunity to come here four or five times, it might have been for short stints, but I thought each time I was up here I was learning and getting used to the way baseball is played at this level," Wood said.

Figgins historically hot: It's no secret that Figgins has been hot. Researcher Trent McCotter of the Society of American Baseball Research discovered that from May 26 through Tuesday, Figgins batted .400, going 132-for-330. It's the second-longest stretch of maintaining a .400 average by an Angels hitter in the past 35 years.

Rod Carew went 370 at-bats from August 1982 to June 1983, collecting 148 hits in the process. Darin Erstad also had a similar streak from June 3-July 25, 2000, going 80-for-200 (.400).

Maddon's take: Rays manager Joe Maddon said he sees similarities between the 2007 Angels and the 2002 World Series champion Angels.

"They're looking an awfully lot like they did in 2002," Maddon said. "They have a swarming offense and the biggest difference right now for them is Garret [Anderson]. I think if Garret had not come back the way he is, it might have been a different situation."

Anderson began play Wednesday with 62 RBIs after the All-Star break, tied with Detroit's Magglio Ordonez for most in the Major Leagues.

"From what I'm seeing, it's all about [Anderson] right now," Maddon said. "The young guys have done a nice job, but the veterans have stepped up."

Up next: Righty Jered Weaver (12-7, 3.90 ERA) opposes Mariners lefty Ryan Feierabend (1-4. 6.80 ERA) in the first of a four-game series Thursday at Angel Stadium at 7:05 p.m. PT.






