
ST. LOUIS -- Scot Shields wasn't whistling in the dark. He was speaking his mind, and his words have proved prophetic.

After losing eight of their first nine games on the road, the Angels finally took two in Chicago from the White Sox in late April. Shields, the superb setup man for closer Francisco Rodriguez, felt the road tide turning.

"That's not us," he said, referring to the club that was as cold as the sub-freezing temperatures during the opening trip of the season through all three time zones. "We've always been a good road club. We'll get it together. Wait and see."

Just as Shields suggested, they've gone from road worriers to road warriors. Since that dismal 1-8 start away from Angel Stadium, manager Mike Scioscia's troupe is 14-6 in unfriendly environs, joining Boston and Detroit as the three American League clubs with winning road records.

Their triumph over the reigning World Series champion Cardinals on Friday night was among the Angels' most impressive performances of the season.

"The way we fought back, I thought that was a big win for us mentally," Gary Matthews Jr. said. "Wins like that can be real morale boosters. I think it gave everybody a lift."

The Angels were trailing, 4-0, entering the fifth inning, St. Louis having bashed three solo homers against Bartolo Colon, when they suddenly came alive -- and stayed alive.

A three-run fifth inning got them back in the game, and even then the Cards felt relieved. It ended with Garret Anderson's line drive speared at first by Albert Pujols.

"That pitch was up and I got on top of it," Anderson said. "It very well could have tied the game up. They had the momentum, but we started applying pressure and kept applying pressure.

"We all feed off each other. Nobody wants to make the last out in an inning. The kind of hitters we have -- line-drive hitters who use the whole field -- we can put rallies together. That was a good feeling, coming back on these guys."

The Angels erupted for six runs in the seventh, silencing Busch Stadium. Anderson had three hits. Chone Figgins -- on fire with a .500 average in an eight-game hitting streak -- had three hits and three steals. Howie Kendrick had a single and two doubles.

"I like last night's win because we scored 10 runs and pressured them every inning," Scioscia said. "That's the way our offense has to be -- pushing it, running the bases aggressively."

Not so meek: Through Friday, the Angels rank third in the American League in batting at .282, behind the Tigers (.288) and Mariners (.286). They're also third in runs scored, behind Detroit and the Yankees.



Complete coverage &gt;  


They're 11th in homers, fourth in doubles and they lead the league in steals. The perception of a popgun offense isn't consistent with realilty.

Vladimir Guerrero, with 12 homers, is not the lone power threat. Matthews (eight) and Casey Kotchman and Mike Napoli (seven each) all have 20-homer seasons within reach. And Anderson, even though he has only two homers, is capable of heating up and approaching 20.

Brotherly love: Jered Weaver will carry brother Jeff's World Series ring home, the Cardinals presenting it to Jered for safe keeping since Jeff's Mariners aren't visiting St. Louis this season. They also gave Jered what he called the "B ring" for a family member.

Jered saw all but one of the Cardinals' postseason games en route to their World Series title in 2006, enduring cold weather wearing his brother's clothing as Jeff played a major role in the triumph.

"Hopefully, Jeff can be there this year, wearing my stuff," Jered said. "It might be a little warmer in Anaheim."

Jered said Jeff feels he's getting his arm strength back and is ready to contribute for Seattle after a disappointing start associated with arm issues.

Rivera on track: Juan Rivera, hoping to return to the Angels sometime after the All-Star break, is throwing in his Arizona rehab from a broken leg but hasn't started swinging a bat yet. His running is treadmill-based. ... Justin Speier (viral infection) is throwing during his rehab at the Angels' Tempe, Ariz., facility, but there's no timetable for his return, Scioscia said.

Minor stars of the day: Pitching, pitching, pitching. Kasey Olenberger had another strong effort for Triple-A Salt Lake in a 4-3 win over Portland, yielding two earned runs in eight innings as the win went to Matt Willhite in relief. Olenberger didn't walk a man and struck out four, reducing his ERA to 3.64.

Nick Adenhart moved to 5-2 for Double-A Arkansas in a 6-3 win over Wichita. Adenhart yielded three earned runs in eight innings, shaving his ERA to 3.44.

Like Olenberger, Tim Schoeninger delivered eight productive innings (one earned run, seven strikeouts) for Class A Cedar Rapids with no decision, the 2-1 win over Quad Cities going to Warner Madrigal in relief. Schoeninger's ERA is 2.72 in 11 outings.

Stat of the day: The Angels' 39-23 record is the best in franchise history through 62 games -- this after a 6-9 start.

Up next: Weaver (5-3, 3.88 ERA) faces Cardinals right-hander Todd Wellemeyer (1-0, 4.11 ERA) in the series finale on Sunday at 11:15 a.m. PT.






