
ANAHEIM -- Angels relief pitcher Darren Oliver just sat and watched from his locker as his two sons, Brock and Maxwell, wrestled with fellow reliever Justin Speier.



Oliver is no stranger to being a child in a Major League clubhouse, as his father, Bob, played eight seasons in the big leagues as an outfielder and first baseman. But Bob Oliver's career ended during the 1975 season, when Darren was just 4 years old.



That's why the best part about Oliver's 15-year Major League career is easy for him to answer. For him, it's not about the wins or the accolades that come with a career in baseball, but about his two children.


"The best part about playing baseball a long time is that they get to come around and remember it," Oliver said. "I was kinda little. They're a little older than I was."



Oliver has been around baseball long enough -- or as he says, "forever" -- that he knows there's much more than just what happens on the field. That's why he's become the go-to guy in the Angels' clubhouse when players have off-the-field questions.



"Most of the time, they'll ask me questions and I tell them, 'I don't know if it's the right answer, but I'm speaking from past experience,'" Oliver said. "We've got off-the-field problems just like everybody else. We got to do the same things everybody else does -- pay bills, put gas in the car, go grocery shopping -- and we have girlfriends or wives."



Rookie reliever Darren O'Day, who was 10 years old when Oliver made his Major League debut in 1993, said Oliver has helped him get situated with becoming a big leaguer.



"When I first got here, he was very helpful from Day 1," O'Day said. "He always shares his experiences. He's told us about his mistakes and how to avoid them."




Oliver, though, means much more to the Angels than the advice he passes on to the players. He has quietly enjoyed his second quality season with Los Angeles as the team's lone left-hander in the bullpen.



Oliver carries a very respectable 3.22 ERA this season, and he has allowed more than one earned run in just one of his 31 appearances.



Oliver has resurrected his career as a reliever after he was a starting pitcher for 10 seasons before having troubles in 2003 and the beginning of '04. He was converted into a reliever by the Astros in '04, and since then, he has a 3.54 ERA.









"I've always said it's a game of adjustments. You have to go with the flow."




-- Darren Oliver






Oliver attributed his success as a reliever to making subtle changes over the course of his career. It's become a necessity for Oliver, who has faced 946 different batters in his career.




"I've always said it's a game of adjustments," Oliver said. "You have to go with the flow. Sometimes you're doing something a certain way for a few years, but then the league catches up with you and you have to change it around like a chess game."


Oliver has been winning his chess matches this season for a bullpen that has found its groove after it struggled the first few weeks of the season. The Angels' bullpen had a 3.50 ERA in June after posting a 4.37 ERA for the first three months of the season.



Now Angels manager Mike Scioscia feels more confident in a bullpen that has recently been almost automatic in keeping leads.



"Our depth of our bullpen, we feel, is really strong," Scioscia said. "Those last seven, eight, nine outs in a ballgame are going to be a real strength for us."



Of all the relievers on the club, Oliver is always the one who seems most relaxed in everything he does -- from just watching his boys play around in the clubhouse to slowly jogging in from the bullpen to the mound when he's called on to pitch.



"He never gets too excited," O'Day said. "When guys like me and [rookie reliever Jose] Arredondo come in, we're running in from the bullpen. He just jogs right on in. He's never rushed and never gets too excited."



Oliver said he learned that trait from his father, Bob, who hit 94 career home runs, including a career-high 27 with the Royals in 1970, which was the year Darren was born.



"He always told me, 'Just be even keel,'" Oliver said. "'Don't get too high, don't get too low. It's sports, and you're going to fail.' That's just the way it is. But you need to give yourself a chance to get back the next time."



But there's another piece of advice Bob lent to Darren that has made his big league career even more enjoyable.



"He always just said, 'Have fun on and off the field. It's your life and enjoy it.'" Oliver said. "So I have a lot of fun. I'm serious when I'm out there playing, but I joke around a lot. I have fun with it."






