
SEATTLE -- If ever there was a time to say, I told you so, it was Monday night at Safeco Field.

That's where Jered Weaver, in his return to the Angels rotation, made it a perfect five-for-five in Major League starts.

But the young rookie understands the game, both on and off the field, so he chose to take the high ground and let his numbers do the talking in the first installment of his second trip through the big leagues that looks more like his personal playground with each outing.

Kendry Morales went 3-for-4 with a homer, while Orlando Cabrera singled in the eighth inning to extend his streak of reaching base safely to 60 straight games as the Angels defeated the Mariners, 7-1, to open the series.

It was the third straight victory for the Angels, who remain five games back of the A's in the American League West after Oakland's win over the Tigers.

"We're just trying to get things going," said Adam Kennedy, who went 2-for-4 with two RBIs. "Tonight it was against a pretty good team that is a little bit ahead of us and it was tremendous."

Tremendous is an apt description for Weaver, who had spent the last couple of weeks down in Triple-A, not because of uncertainty about his talent but out of hope that veterans would perform.

One is Bartolo Colon, who pushed Weaver aside when he returned to the Angels after a two-month stint on the disabled list for inflammation in his right shoulder. The other pitcher in question was Jered's older brother Jeff, who had struggled in his first nine starts but had settled somewhat over his next five.

The Angels hoped that Jeff Weaver's upswing would continue so they could deal him for some possible help to the offense. That proved to be wishful thinking as he allowed six runs in two innings in his last start and was promptly designated for assignment.

That brought Jered back to the Angels.

"He was definitely on my mind so I pretty much said, 'This one's for you,' " Jered Weaver said. "I wanted this to be a lift for him. It was his spot in the rotation."

The brothers spoke on the telephone Monday and Jeff let his little brother know that he was going to park himself in front of a television to watch it. Jered Weaver (5-0) did the family proud as he carved his way through the Mariners' lineup by allowing one run on five hits. He also walked one and struck out nine over seven innings to pick up the win, his third on the road.

A lot of credit is being given to Jered Weaver's delivery, in which he is able to hide the ball. That makes pitches that are routinely in the low 90s to appear to have greater velocity. Combine that with his excellent command and he's been able to keep hitters off balance in each of his five starts.

"Deception has a little to do with my success and that has allowed me to get people out," Jered Weaver said. "At some point they will catch up to it and I will have to adjust but until then I will do what I did in the minor leagues."

Weaver has defeated five different teams but has left impressions each time.

"He had a lot of deception. He threw his fastball well and his breaking balls behind in the count," Mariners manager Mike Hargrove said. "The changeup was a good pitch for him."

Fernando Valenzuela created a stir when he started out 8-0 for the Dodgers in 1981. Angels manager Mike Scioscia, who broke in with Valenzuela, said his former batterymate was something special but "Weaver is measuring up."

"On the mound, I've seen some good starts. Fernando, Hideo Nomo, Orel Hershiser," Scioscia said. "But this guy is right there."

Felix Hernandez (8-8) was the counterpart in the apparent pitchers' duel Monday but the 20-year-old Mariners starter was touched for five runs, four of which were earned, on six hits and two walks with six strikeouts over 6 2/3 innings to take the loss.

"He's got a really good arm and really good stuff," said Kennedy, who knocked Hernandez out of the game with a two-run single in the seventh. "He's got a lot of good pitches and puts it all together."

The Angels got on the board in the top of the third when Juan Rivera dropped a single into center field and then scored on a two-out single to right by Chone Figgins for a 1-0 lead.

In the top of the fifth, the Angels put two more runs on the board when Rivera worked a one-out walk and Morales followed with a two-run homer. It was the fifth home run of the year for Morales, who took an 0-1 pitch from Hernandez to right.

The Mariners got a run back in the bottom half of the inning when Kenji Johjima singled to left with one out and scored on Ichiro Suzuki's two-out single to center off Weaver.






