
TUCSON, Ariz. -- According to a report in Thursday's editions of the New York Daily News, the possibility of punishment or possibly even the voiding of Gary Matthews Jr.'s contract is growing in the wake of the revelation last week of his alleged purchase of human grown hormone in 2004. 



Quoting a Major League source, the Daily News reported that the Angels are considering action against their outfielder if he does not talk about the allegations soon. 



Matthews, signed as a free agent to a five-year, $50 million contract in November, reportedly received human growth hormone from a pharmacy over the Internet in 2004. Based on reports on an investigation conducted by the Albany County (N.Y.) district attorney's office, Matthews allegedly was included on customer lists for Applied Pharmacy Services in Mobile, Ala.



Angels vice president for communications Tim Mead told the newspaper that the club is not pursuing punishment at this time. 



"We're not going down that road now," Mead said.



However, Mead added that the club remains resolute in wanting Matthews to speak publicly as soon as possible about the allegations, reiterating a stance taken by owner Arte Moreno last week. Matthews and his attorney, Robert Shapiro, have said that Matthews would not comment on the matter while investigations are ongoing. 



"We want as much information as Gary can provide, but he can't or won't tell us anything," Mead told the Daily News. "There is a sense of frustration here because of the lack of information. Everyone understands this is a legal issue but there is a sense of frustration. We feel like this is hanging over our heads. 



"We'd like this resolved by Opening Day." 



The newspaper quoted a Major League source saying that Matthews does not have a legitimate reason to stay silent on this issue, in large part because the prescription allegedly was received in 2004, one year before human growth hormone was banned by Major League Baseball. 



"There's no reason for him to not say something," the source told the Daily News. "If he had a prescription (for HGH) and he took it before it was banned, then he doesn't have to worry about anyone punishing him him." 



The Daily News also reported that MLB and National Football League representatives met with the Albany district attorney investigating the distributors of performance-enhancing drugs. 



Matthews, who did not play in Thursday's game at Tucson against the Diamondbacks, is 2-for-13 with a homer and two RBIs in five exhibition games with the Angels this spring. A career .263 hitter, he had a career year in 2006 for Texas, hitting .313 with 19 homers and 79 RBIs. He is expected to be the Angels' leadoff hitter.







