
CHICAGO -- Dallas McPherson was called up from Triple-A Salt Lake on Tuesday and he struck out all three times he came up to bat.

That particular stat is not meant to call out McPherson but merely to illustrate the current state of affairs that is the Angels offense.

No matter who gets plugged into the lineup, the team is seemingly unable to generate a spark.

So while the White Sox fattened up on a 12-batter, six-run inning, the Angels went the final six frames with nary a baserunner en route to a 9-1 loss in the series opener.

The Sox improved to 23-9, the best record in baseball. The Angels fell six games below .500 as they suffered their 11th loss in their last 14 games.

"Everybody is looking for answers and we're trying to solve it," Tim Salmon said. "In past years, the answers were here in the room. It is not like we're missing a lot of guys that are on the DL. We've got good hitters and we're hitting the ball well, but it is not finding holes."

Salmon should know. In the top of the seventh, he lifted a fly ball that had home run distance but was pulled back into fair territory by Scott Podsednik for an out.

Of the five hits the Angels had on Tuesday, four were for extra bases, but not one produced a run. Orlando Cabrera was credited with a triple when second baseman Tadahito Iguchi could not corral his pop fly in the first inning and then scored on Vladimir Guerrero's groundout.

Garret Anderson then tripled to right-center with two out  but was stranded on third when Salmon popped out to the shortstop. Jose Molina doubled with two out in the second, but Adam Kennedy struck out to end the inning. And in the third, Guerrero doubled with two out and went to third on a wild pitch but was left on base when Anderson grounded out to second.

That made the Angels 0-for-4 with runners in scoring position Tuesday and dropped their overall batting average with runners in scoring position for the season to .243.

"It seems like we can't get four, five, six guys swinging the bat well at the same time," manager Mike Scioscia said.

It was also the last time they would scarcely mount a threat on the evening, as White Sox starter Freddy Garcia retired the next 16 batters and left after eight innings with just one run charged against his account, walking none and recording six strikeouts. Reliever Cliff Politte cleaned up with a 1-2-3 ninth.

"It seemed like from some point in the third inning to the end of the game we couldn't get anything going," Scioscia said. "We had good at-bats early but couldn't keep it going."

The Angels are not in same offensive class as the White Sox, a team that can manufacture runs as well as hit the long ball. Jim Thome and Jermaine Dye drove that point home with a pair of dingers in a six-run third inning.

It was Thome's American League-leading 14th homer and the seventh for Dye. Joe Crede added a solo shot in the bottom of the seventh.

The Angels' offensive gameplan, though, is not centered on the home run and relies heavily on a running game and situational hitting. But couple some cold bats with the sudden inability to put the ball in play while runners are in motion and even the club's one strength cannot pull the team out of its offensive slump.

"There is a frustration level with our club right now, but we don't feel our hands are tied as a staff," Scioscia said. "There certainly has to be a sense of urgency to move in the right direction, especially with the heartbeat of our club. The situational hitting has been nonexistent."

The offense struggled at a number of points last season, but the pitching staff, particularly the starting rotation, carried the club through the rough spots. The result was an American League West crown and an eventual berth in the AL Championship Series against these same White Sox.

Aside from John Lackey and Kelvim Escobar, the Angels are not getting the same quality performances out of their rotation this season. On Tuesday, it was Kevin Gregg, who was sharp in his previous start when he held the Tigers to a run over seven innings, but couldn't follow it up.

The right-hander never found a groove and allowed seven runs on nine hits and a walk without recording a strikeout over 2 2/3 innings.

The White Sox "took advantage of some mistakes, but they also put the bat on the ball on some good pitches," Gregg said. "I got the ground balls, but they also put the ball where we couldn't get it."

All of which has the Angels in continuous search mode, one that is taking them outside the organization.

"You look at our lineup and the potential is there," Scioscia said. "We have to formulate some options and move forward, but we're not going to jump at the first thing."






