
NEW YORK -- Bartolo Colon had that whiplashed look of a guy who'd been rear-ended on the freeway. He wasn't sure how it happened, or why, but he knew one thing -- it didn't feel very good.
In an old-fashioned slugfest, the Yankees landed the most telling blows in a 14-9 KO of the Angels on Friday night in front of 52,059 at Yankee Stadium.
Lasting only two-plus innings and giving up seven earned runs, Colon absorbed more than his share of body blows as the Bronx Bombers won for the first time in four meetings this season with the American League West leaders.
"I actually thought I had pretty good stuff," Colon said through translator Jose Mota, the club's broadcaster. "I did pick up the radar gun, and the velocity [mid-90s at times] was right there. I was surprised the results were not there."
The results certainly were there for Colon's longtime nemesis, Alex Rodriguez.
Busting out of a mini-funk, A-Rod led the Yanks' 19-hit parade with a two-run homer, double and single. Jorge Posada doubled, singled twice and drove in three runs, and Melky Cabrera had three hits, scoring three times.
Chone Figgins and Orlando Cabrera each drove in three runs for the Angels, who produced 12 hits.
"Offensively, we couldn't have done much more than we did," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said.
Trailing, 9-5, entering the sixth inning, the Angels scored four times, with Figgins' two-out, two-run single tying the game at 9. Gone were both veteran starters, Andy Pettitte giving up eight earned runs and 10 hits in five-plus innings.
The Yankees regained the lead in the bottom of the sixth when Johnny Damon walked and scored on Cabrera's single and an error by Gary Matthews Jr. Rodriguez followed with a two-run homer against Chris Bootcheck -- his 29th homer and No. 493 of his career, tying him with Lou Gehrig and Fred McGriff for 22nd all-time. 
Bootcheck (2-2) would absorb the loss. Edwar Ramirez, released twice by the Angels before signing as a free agent with the Yanks, picked up his first win in his second appearance, showcasing a deadly changeup.
Shaking off a hamstring strain, A-Rod ended an 0-for-19 drought when he doubled to trigger a two-run second inning, and he singled and scored during a six-run third that raised Colon's ERA to 6.44.
"I think he needs a couple days off," Scioscia said of Rodriguez, tongue firmly planted in his cheek. "It didn't look like he was running very well. Definitely [he should take off Saturday] and Sunday. I'd recommend he gets ready for that All-Star Game."
In a more serious vein, Scioscia applauded A-Rod's defense at third base for having almost as big an impact as his bat. He took hits away from Vladimir Guerrero and Reggie Willits in the third, and he started a double play that ended the second.
A-Rod has humbled a lot of Angels pitchers, a club that features Colon on its board of directors. A-Rod is 22-for-47 with eight homers against Colon.
The play that bothered Colon most, in the final analysis, had nothing to do with A-Rod. Melky Cabrera was on first with a single in the third, the Angels leading, 3-2, after a three-run third featuring doubles by Jose Molina and Orlando Cabrera.
Derek Jeter hit a ball back to the mound with Cabrera in motion. Colon made the fundamental mistake of taking his eye off the ball to check the runner's proximity to second, and the ball bounded away for a gift single.
Before long, Colon had walked Hideki Matsui on four pitches with the bases loaded, and followed by yielding a two-run double to Posada that ended his night.
"I caught myself looking at the runner [Cabrera] ... and that took away my concentration, my focus," Colon said.
As ugly as his numbers are, Colon is optimistic he can turn it around in the second half, when he traditionally has done his best work, he said. Scioscia clearly wasn't ready to quit on the 2005 AL Cy Young Award winner.
"He has the ability to have a heck of a second half," the manager said. "In talking to Bart, he's fine [physically]. Command is a big part of pitching, and I didn't see him repeating pitches the way he was when he came back [from a shoulder injury, starting the season 5-0].
"Right now, I'd classify it as more of a mechanical issue. He just seems to be out of sync."
The Angels, overall, are not playing at the high level that had lifted them to the top of the division with one of the Majors' best records. The offense has been inconsistent, and the pitching has not been as dominant, top to bottom, as hoped, with Colon and Ervin Santana searching for their grooves.
With losses in seven of their past 10 games, the Angels turn to co-ace John Lackey to turn things around on Saturday, when he engages Roger Clemens in one of the most attractive pitching matchups of the first half.
Colon, meanwhile, said he'd be spending the All-Star break working to find whatever is missing.
"I don't think I deserve a day off," Colon said. "I need to start tomorrow. My off-days will come after the last out of the season."






