
He owns 31 RBIs in his last 36 games, he's hit safely in 17 of last 22 games and he can track down anything in the outfield within range of a cell-phone signal.

And don't forget about the inside-the-park home run he hit on his "day off," an eighth-inning blast during a 10-4 rout of the Dodgers on Sunday.

His name is Gary Matthews Jr. Perhaps you've heard of him. You know, the center fielder who switched from leadoff to cleanup, helping the Angels to 23 wins in the first 31 games he batted from that position. One would think that such a pivotal component of a team tied for the most wins in the Major Leagues would garner at least marginal attention from All-Star voters for the upcoming Midsummer Classic in San Francisco on July 10.

But Halos votes remain unchanged, with Vladimir Guerrero still leading all American League outfielders, and shortstop Orlando Cabrera lingering steadily at the No. 5 position behind New York's Derek Jeter, Detroit's Carlos Guillen, Baltimore's Miguel Tejada and Boston's Julio Lugo.

Fans can cast their votes for starters up to 25 times with the Monster 2007 All-Star Online Ballot at MLB.com and all 30 club sites until Thursday, June 28, at 8:59 p.m. PT.
Fans will again be given the opportunity to cast an All-Star vote immediately following the 2007 "MLB All-Star Game Selection Show" presented by Chevrolet, which will be televised by Turner Sports on Sunday, July 1. Baseball fans around the world will be able to select the final player on each All-Star team via the Monster.com 2007 All-Star Final Vote.

Selecting the rosters isn't the end of the fun in 2007, either. Concluding the All-Star balloting process, fans will have the opportunity to participate in the official voting for the Ted Williams Most Valuable Player presented by Chevrolet at the All-Star Game via the Monster.com 2007 All-Star Game MVP Vote at MLB.com.
 


The All-Star Game will be televised nationally by FOX Sports and televised around the world by Major League Baseball International. ESPN Radio will provide exclusive national radio coverage, while MLB.com will offer extensive online coverage and MLB Radio will have exclusive play-by-play coverage of the game on the Internet.






