
A season that yielded 94 wins -- two fewer than the Majors' best -- ended with three postseason losses in a row in October, taking some luster off a memorable 2007.

A series of injuries to key personnel down the stretch could not have been more untimely. When they lined up to face the Red Sox in the American League Division Series, having won the AL West by six games, the Angels were far from their best. And it showed.

Even after not generating any firepower in the sweep at the hands of the Red Sox, the Angels could focus on a remarkable season of achievement.

They won their third AL West crown in four seasons, seizing command on May 9 and owning sole possession of the lead for 143 days.

Their biggest challenge came in late August when they arrived in Seattle for three games with the Mariners clinging to a two-game lead. A sweep of the series sent Seattle reeling, and the Angels cruised to first.

Starters John Lackey and Kelvim Escobar combined for 37 wins -- 19 by Lackey, who claimed the AL ERA title at 3.01, a first in his career.

Lackey, Francisco Rodriguez and Vladimir Guerrero made the AL All-Star team, Rodriguez notching the save for the AL after Guerrero had won the State Farm Home Run Derby for the first time.

Guerrero would finish third in the AL MVP balloting while claiming a Silver Slugger Award and making The Sporting News AL All-Star team.

Shortstop Orlando Cabrera won his second Rawlings Gold Glove. Lackey was third in the AL Cy Young Award balloting, while Reggie Willits was fifth in the Rookie of the Year voting and Mike Scioscia was runner-up to Cleveland's Eric Wedge in the Manager of the Year race.

All in all, despite the frustrating finish, it was an eventful, exciting season for the Angels. And there was promise of more good things in 2008 with the winter acquisitions of center fielder Torii Hunter and starting pitcher Jon Garland.

January

A 2006 All-Star with the Texas Rangers, Gary Matthews Jr. joined veteran outfielders Guerrero and Garret Anderson as the Angels' new center fielder. Playing for his eighth team in nine seasons, Matthews agreed to a five-year deal worth $50 million.

The Angels bid farewell to one of their most decorated in two-time Gold Glove winner Darin Erstad, but welcomed back team saves leader Troy Percival.

Percival was named special assignments pitching instructor, charged with reporting to the team's Major and Minor League Spring Training camps and evaluating all pitchers in the farm system.

The perennial one-two peril of right-handers Rodriguez and Scot Shields were signed to one-year contracts. Robb Quinlan inked a two-year deal through 2008, and reliever Chris Bootcheck was designated for assignment in place of Shea Hillenbrand to fortify the offense.


February

Spring Training was rife with competition at the first-base and catcher positions.

Casey Kotchman, returning to regular action after missing most of 2006 with mononucleosis, and the newly acquired Hillenbrand battled for the right to man the first-base line, while catchers Mike Napoli, Jose Molina and Jeff Mathis began to compete for the upper hand behind home plate.

The Kotchman/Hillenbrand clash allowed Howie Kendrick to move back to his preferred assignment at second base, after being unexpectedly thrust into time at first in 2006.

Escobar, once hampered by a sore left knee, pitched well and without pain during the team's first intrasquad game at Tempe Diablo Stadium.

The same could not be said for an ailing Jered Weaver, who struggled through a bout with biceps tendinitis.


March

Speculation surrounding alleged human growth hormone (HGH) use by Matthews in 2004 prompted a public address by the center fielder. In a statement prepared 16 days after he was implicated in a transaction with a pharmacy known for distributing the banned substance, Matthews maintained his innocence.

He later apologized to teammates for being a "distraction" during Spring Training.

After being cast from the 40-man roster yet again in January, Bootcheck made a compelling case for his continued stay in Anaheim. In nine spring appearances, the right-hander tossed 19 quality innings in relief that secured a roster spot after falling short each of the previous two springs.

Fellow reliever Shields, also anticipating an extended stay at Angel Stadium, signed a four-year extension worth $18 million that would keep him wearing red through 2010 as Rodriguez's setup man.

A sharply-hit grounder that was fielded by Chone Figgins' open right hand fractured the third baseman's middle and index fingers. Dr. Steve Shin of Anaheim's Kerlan-Jobe Clinic prescribed a five- to six-week hiatus to allow the fingers to heal properly.


April

On the mound for the 2002 world champion Angels when they recorded the final out of the World Series that year, Percival ascended the hill at Angel Stadium one last time on April 2. Signed to a one-day Minor League contract, Percival officially retired as an Angel after throwing the honorary first pitch to usher in the season opener. Little did anyone realize Percival would later launch a successful comeback with the St. Louis Cardinals.

Following the ceremonial toss, Percival deferred to Lackey, who powered the Halos to a 4-1 win over Texas. The big right-hander, pitching against his hometown team, allowed four hits and one earned run through five innings.

The Halos finished the month with a 15-11 mark, enduring a particularly grueling nine-day road trip in which they lost seven of eight from April 10-18.

Guerrero shared Player of the Week honors with New York's Alex Rodriguez for the week ending April 8. Over that span, the right fielder batted .440 with an .880 slugging percentage, three round-trippers, a pair of doubles and 10 RBIs.

Kendrick was placed on the 15-day DL with a broken bone in his left middle finger after he was struck by a pitch from Oakland's Chad Gaudin at McAfee Coliseum on April 17.

Virginia Tech alum Joe Saunders donned a Hokies cap in support of the shooting victims slain on his alma mater's campus while pitching against Seattle on April 20. He allowed seven hits through six scoreless innings.


May

Scioscia eclipsed Bill Rigney as the winningest manager in Angels history, picking up his 626th managerial win after his team bested the Chicago White Sox, 5-1, on May 4.

Bartolo Colon joined Scioscia in the history books little more than a week later, tying a Major League record for most consecutive wins against the same club. The burly right-hander recorded his 12th straight decision in as many starts against Texas on May 12. He fanned six batters in a 6-3 win at Rangers Ballpark in the second of a four-game series.

The previous day, also a 6-3 win over the Rangers, marked the first time Matthews -- the first time he can remember since Little League, at least -- batted fourth in the lineup. Matthews drove in a pair of runs and converted seven chances from his post in center field during his first return to Arlington since being traded to Anaheim after three years in Texas.

The Halos ended the month with a three-game sweep of New York at Yankee Stadium from May 25-27, extending their advantage over Joe Torre's Bombers to 31-23 in the Bronx. The Halos improved their overall lead on the Yanks to 58-52 during Torre's 12-year reign.


June

After enduring two broken fingers and a dreadful 90 at-bat stretch that yielded a .133 average, Figgins waged a private war against any pitcher foolish enough to throw a pitch his way.

The struggling third baseman-turned-great redeemer finished the month with a staggering 53 hits, eclipsing the club record of 48 set by Erstad, while raising his average to a healthy .325. He drove in 17 runs and scored 23 more, while batting .461 during his return to prominence.

The most glaring example of his revamped swing came during a 10-9 come-from-behind win over Houston on June 18. Figgins went a perfect 6-for-6 with three RBIs, including a walk-off triple. He was named MLB's Clutch Player for June.

Cabrera's bat caught fire as well, yielding 36 multi-hit games.

Guerrero blasted the 350th jack of his career, his ninth walk-off shot, to rally the Angels in a 4-3 win over Baltimore on June 3.

Not to be outdone, starters Escobar and Lackey enjoyed comparable success from the mound. Escobar tossed a complete-game three-hitter against Minnesota on June 5. He allowed a single run while fanning four batters on 107 pitches in a 5-1 win.

Lackey became the Major League's first 10-game winner with a 6-3 decision over Cincinnati at Great American Ball Park on June 13.


July

After his club dropped a pair of series to Texas and the New York Yankees in the week preceding the All-Star break, Guerrero vented some frustration in the Home Run Derby. With the help of a lumber donation from fellow Dominican David Ortiz of Boston, Guerrero launched 17 blasts into the stands at AT&T Park to win the slugger's duel.

Guerrero represented the Halos alongside teammates Lackey and Rodriguez in his eighth All-Star bid. Lackey did not leave the bullpen during his first appearance at the MidSummer Classic, but Rodriguez was summoned to record the final out of the contest. A fastball to Philadelphia's Aaron Rowand induced a flyout to right, granting Rodriguez his first All-Star save while preserving a 5-4 American League win.

On July 15 against Texas, Figgins stole three bags to eclipse the cub record for steals with 187. Gary Pettis, the Rangers' first-base coach, previously held the record.

Winless since June 9, right-hander Ervin Santana was optioned to Triple-A Salt Lake after allowing a career-high 14 hits and seven earned runs in the Tampa Bay series opener on July 17. Over his last six starts -- five losses and one no-decision -- Santana's ERA ballooned to 6.22. His 5-11 record before being demoted was the worst among Angels starters. Joe Saunders, the Salt Lake southpaw, was called up to replace him.

Like Santana, Molina also bid farewell to his teammates. He was dealt to the Yankees on July 21 for right-handed reliever Jeff Kennard.

Dustin Moseley rejoined the starting rotation on July 29 to occupy the No. 5 spot. In his first start since April, Moseley was removed one out shy of securing the win. He scattered five hits and allowed four runs through 4 2/3 innings in a 13-4 rout of Detroit.

The July 31 trade deadline came and went without an acquisition.



August

Guerrero ended a 30-game, 125 at-bat homerless drought, dating back to June 23, with a pair of jacks in a 6-4 win over Oakland on Aug. 2. He went yard twice more the next night, this time an 8-4 loss to the Athletics.

Miniscule second baseman Maicer Izturis rose to long ball prominence with three game-altering blasts during a six-game homestand from Aug. 6-12. His first round-tripper was launched against Boston's Curt Schilling in the series opener against the AL East leaders on Aug. 6. The two-run homer broke a 2-2 tie and lifted the Angels to a 4-2 win.

Minnesota was Izturis' next victim, surrendering his first career grand slam and a two-run homer on consecutive nights. The four-bagger broke open a 2-1 game, eventually propelling the Angels to a 10-1 rout of the Twins on Aug. 10. The two-run shot followed one game later, this time igniting a four-run rally that helped Izturis' club to a 4-3 come-from-behind win over the visitors on Aug. 11.

Lackey picked up his 15th win the same night, tying him for the Major League lead alongside Boston's Josh Beckett.

On Aug. 21 at Angel Stadium, Anderson delivered a career game: a grand slam, three-run homer, two-run double and run-scoring double, becoming the 12th player in MLB history to record a double-figure RBI game by knocking in 10 in an 18-9 rout of the Yankees. It was the Angels' greatest offensive night in franchise history against the Yanks.

A flashpoint in the season arrived in Seattle, where the Angels met the Mariners in a three-game showdown starting on Aug. 27. Lackey pitched a shutout and Anderson supplied the offensive juice with a homer and three RBIs in a 6-0 win in the opener, pushing the Mariners three games behind in the AL West. Falling behind, 5-0, in the first inning the following night, the Angels rallied for a 10-6 decision that seemed to take the life out of Seattle. Guerrero had four hits, and Moseley's 5 1/3 scoreless innings of long relief kept the Mariners at bay. The Angels completed a series sweep, 8-2, behind Jered Weaver, who outdueled Felix Hernandez. Anderson had four hits and Guerrero and Mathis homered.

Led by Anderson (30 RBIs), Guerrero (28 RBIs), Figgins (.342) and Escobar (4-1, 2.38), the Angels were 18-11, matching May for their best month of the season.



September

Anderson continued his scalding hitting, extending a consecutive games RBI streak to a club-record 11 games in a 10-3 rout of the Indians on Sept. 6. He produced 21 RBIs during the streak. Escobar notched his 16th victory in the win. Anderson ran his streak to 12 games, two shy of the AL record, before it finally was snapped.

Guerrero delivered his 33rd career multi-homer game and fourth of the season in a 10-5 win on Sept. 11, with Saunders pushing his record to 8-3. The following day, Guerrero and Anderson combined for nine RBIs, five by Anderson, as the club set a season high in runs during an 18-6 blowout against the Orioles. Brandon Wood hit his first career homer and Escobar picked up his 17th win and No. 100 in his career.

Weaver won his career-best 12th game and Rodriguez bagged his 35th save in a 2-1 win at Chicago on Sept. 15.

The offense erupted for 18 hits and scrored in double figures for the 17th time this season in beating the Devil Rays, 10-7, on Sept. 17 for the club's 50th home win. Lackey joined Escobar with his career-high 17th win the following night, the first time at least two Angels had won 17 games since Mark Langston, Chuck Finley and Jim Abbott accomplished the feat in 1991.

With a 7-4 win over the Mariners at home on Sept. 23, the Angels clinched their third AL West title in four years. They finished their home schedule with an MLB-best 54-27 record. Lackey won his 18th game, with K-Rod picking up his 38th save.

Lackey won his final regular-season start, beating the A's on Sept. 28, and claimed the AL ERA title at 3.01 for the first time. Escobar notched win No. 18 the following day in a 3-2 win over the A's, with K-Rod reaching 40 saves for the third straight season.


October

Matched against Boston's Beckett in Game 1 of the ALDS, Lackey gave up a first-inning homer to Kevin Youkilis, and that was all the support that Beckett needed in a 4-0 Red Sox win, holding the Angels to four singles in an overpowering effort. Ortiz also homered for Boston.

The Angels were without center fielder Matthews for the series after he injured his left knee trying to make a catch during the season's final week in Texas. Anderson's vision was impaired by conjunctivitis, and Guerrero was suffering from a left shoulder ailment. What's more, Kotchman was hospitalized with a stomach ailment, and Figgins struggled with an ailing left wrist.

The assorted injuries and ailments immobilized the offense, which couldn't produce enough support for Escobar in a 6-3 Game 2 loss at Fenway Park despite stealing five bases to tie a Division Series record. K-Rod served up a walk-off three-run homer to Manny Ramirez after walking Ortiz intentionally with two outs in the bottom of the ninth.

Schilling and the Red Sox finished their ALDS sweep with a 9-1 win at Angel Stadium, bringing the curtain down on the Angels' season. The Halos' offensive woes were underscored by 25 futile innings out of 27 in the series. A three-run second inning in Game 2, giving them a one-run lead for three innings, and a solo run in the ninth on Sunday represented the sum total of the Angels' offense, decimated by injuries and illness.

On Oct. 15, it was disclosed that Bill Stoneman was stepping down after eight seasons as Angels general manager to accept a consultant role within the organization. Stoneman was the GM for eight years, producing four playoff teams, three American League West champions and a World Series champion in 2002.


Moving up to replace Stoneman as GM was his protege, Tony Reagins. Reagins is the 10th GM in franchise history. He is the first African-American to hold the position for the Angels and the second African-American GM in the Majors, joining Ken Williams of the White Sox. Reagins has worked closely with Scioscia since the system provided six rookies for the 2002 club, Reagins' first year as director of player development.

Guerrero was named to the American League All-Star team announced by The Sporting News.

Middle reliever and spot starter Moseley underwent surgery on his right ulna nerve.

November
Cabrera was rewarded with his second Rawlings Gold Glove Award for fielding excellence. Guerrero picked up his seventh Silver Slugger Award and fourth in a row as an Angel.

In postseason awards announced by the Baseball Writers Association of America, Willits finished fifth in the AL Rookie of the Year balloting (claimed by Boston's Dustin Pedroia), while Lackey was third in the AL Cy Young Award voting (won by Cleveland's C.C. Sabathia) and Scioscia was runner-up to Cleveland's Eric Wedge in the Manager of the Year derby. Guerrero was third in the MVP race, won by the Yankees' Alex Rodriguez.

On Nov. 19, the Angels sent Cabrera to the White Sox in exchange for Garland.

Three days later, the Angels agreed to terms with free-agent center fielder Torii Hunter on a five-year, $90 million contract.

December

Unable to land slugger Miguel Cabrera from the Florida Marlins, who sent him to Detroit along with Dontrelle Willis for six prospects, the Angels expressed satisfaction departing the Winter Meetings in Nashville, Tenn., with their club, emphasizing that it has been strengthened by the additions of Garland and Hunter.



Insufficient evidence was found that Matthews was in violation of Major League Baseball's Joint Drug Prevention and Treatment Program, and he will not be sanctioned by MLB, the Office of the Baseball Commissioner announced.



Dallas McPherson became a free agent when the Angels elected not to tender the arbitration-eligible player a contract.



Former Sen. George Mitchell said that performance-enhancing drug use has been pervasive in the sport for more than a decade, as he released his findings and proposed means of aggressively addressing the issue.






