
ANAHEIM -- Clyde Wright remembers his 1970 season fondly.

It was July 3 of that season, in particular, that he'll never forget. The 6-foot-1 left-hander was inducted into the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics Hall of Fame before he was scheduled to pitch against the A's at Angel Stadium but it was just a sign of things to come.

The 29-year-old from Tennessee was warming up in the bullpen before the game when Angels coach Norm Sherry had some interesting advice for Wright.

"Norm Sherry came over and told me I might as well make the Baseball Hall of Fame," Wright said. "And sure enough, I threw a no-hitter and it's at the Hall of Fame."

Wright became the first pitcher to throw a no-hitter at Angel Stadium, and was on his way to a career season in which he won 22 games, had a career-low 2.83 ERA and was named to the All-Star team.

"There's not many pitchers who've had seasons like that," Wright said. "But at the time, I didn't realize what the devil it was until after I retired."

He pitched just five more seasons in the Majors and three in Japan before retiring from baseball in 1978. But he couldn't stay too far from the game he loved, starting the Clyde Wright Pitching School in Anaheim 26 years ago. He still runs it to this day.

Wright also keeps busy by working with the Angels in community events and attends many games as a representative of the Angels.

"I'm just a jack of all trades and a master of none," Wright said with a laugh. "I go to community events and then during the games I'll go over and make sure everything is good when we have guests there and just talk to everybody."









ARI: Travis Lee | ATL: Mark Lemke

BAL: Chris Hoiles | BOS: Bill Lee

CHC: Randy Hundley | CIN: Eric Davis

CWS: Dan Pasqua | CLE: Dave Burba

COL: Curtis Leskanic | DET: Steve Sparks

FLA: Charlie Hough | HOU: Doug Drabek

KC: Mike Macfarlane | LAA: Rick Reichardt

LAD: Jim Gott | MIL: Don Sutton

MIN: Kevin Tapani | NYM: Ed Kranepool

NYY: Jim Abbott | OAK: Ben Grieve

PHI: Tommy Greene | PIT: Barry Jones

STL: B. Tewksbury | SD: C. Hernandez

SF: Brian Johnson | SEA: Henry Cotto

TB: Doug Creek | TEX: Dave Hostetler

TOR: Alex  Gonzalez | WAS: W. Fryman



More Where Are They Now? articles &not;





ARI: Jay Bell
ATL: Sid Bream
BAL: Doug DeCinces
BOS: Fred Lynn
CHC: Doug Glanville
CIN: Tom Browning
CWS: Ron Karkovice
CLE: Gaylord Perry
COL: Kevin Ritz
DET: Mickey Tettleton
FLA: Chad Fox
HOU: John Hudek
KC: Ed Hearn
LAA: Clyde Wright
LAD: Steve Sax
MIL: Pat Listach
MIN: Scott Leius
NYM: Jay Hook
NYY: Bucky Dent
OAK: Frank Menechino
PHI: Micky Morandini
PIT: Mike LaValliere
SD: Steve Finley
SEA: Brian Holman
SF: Ellis Burks
STL: Andy Benes
TB: Fred McGriff
TEX: Tim Crabtree
TOR: Danny Cox
WAS: Andre Dawson









Presented by  Monster



Wright, though, loves teaching and perhaps his greatest pupil was his son, Jaret, who burst on the scene in 1997 with the Indians when the right-hander helped lead them to the World Series.

Jaret compiled a 66-60 record in 10 Major Leagues seasons, and it's something that made his father proud.


"It's nice," said the elder Wright, who also pitched 10 seasons, compiling a 100-111 record. "You always want your kids to do better than you do, and Jaret had a 10-year Major League career. It's always good to see your kids on TV."

Wright is also proud of Angels left-hander Joe Saunders, who is threatening to become just the second left-hander in club history to win 20 games and also has a shot at breaking Wright's club record of 22 wins in a season, a record he shares with Nolan Ryan, who equaled it in 1974. Saunders already has 14 wins and is on pace to win 21 games.

"People ask me if it bothers me that Saunders might break my record but I tell them, 'That doesn't bother me. I don't get paid for that record,'" Wright said. "But I got a record that no one can break. I threw the first no-hitter at Angel Stadium, and that can't happen again."






