
OAKLAND -- The last time John Lackey faced the A's, he had to fight off Jason Kendall when the catcher charged the mound.

A catcher charged the mound again Friday night, but this time it was his own as Mike Napoli greeted Lackey ready for a hug but instead offered his hand following a near perfect game by the Angels right hander.

How close?

All that stood between Lackey and history was a leadoff double in the first by A's center fielder Mark Kotsay, but from there, the entire game belonged in the hands of the tall right-hander from Texas, who retired the last 27 batters in a row to record a shutout in the Angels' 3-0 victory.

Lackey wouldn't stack it up against his Game 7 win in the 2002 World Series, when he became the first rookie in nearly 100 years to accomplish the feat, but he was clearly pleased, despite downplaying his brush with destiny.

"No, man, that was for a ring," Lackey said when asked to compare the two victories. "But I do feel I pitched well."

Orlando Cabrera went 0-for-4 to have his streak of reaching base safely by hit, walk or hit by pitch snapped at 63 games. The Angels shortstop grounded into an inning-ending double play in the first and flew out in his next three at-bats. According to SABR researcher Herm Krabbenhoft, Cabrera's streak is the fifth longest since 1941, but that has yet to be verified by the Elias Sports Bureau.

The only streak that mattered on Friday, though, was the consecutive string of outs that Lackey put on the board as he became the first pitcher to allow a leadoff hit and then retire 27 straight since Jerry Reuss on June 11, 1982, while pitching for the Dodgers against the Reds. The catcher that night was none other than current Angels manager Mike Scioscia.

"I think [Lackey's] throwing the ball as well as anyone in the game today," Scioscia said.

Lackey (7-5) went to a full count on Kotsay before the A's center fielder hit a clean double into the left-field corner. Kotsay worked a six-pitch at-bat, and Lackey was up against his only real work of the night as he struggled to gain footing on the McAfee Coliseum mound. He threw 24 pitches in the inning but settled down to throw just 109 on the night.

From there, he worked his four-seam fastball and combined that with a cutter and a sharp breaking ball that helped him punch out 10 batters for the second straight outing, equaling a career-high.

"He was letting it go pretty good," said Napoli, who was behind the plate for Bartolo Colon's four-hit shutout two days ago in Seattle. "He settled down and pitched a great game. I'm pretty sure they were frustrated. He had a great fastball."

Lackey picked up his third straight win and his second complete game this season but first by shutout.

"John was all about fastball command," Scioscia said. "He didn't use his changeup much, but he was able to run his two-seam in and then he had the big hook, but everything worked off his fastball command."

If it weren't for Lackey, Barry Zito (8-6) may have notched his 13th career victory against the Angels. The left-hander pitched well but was outmatched as he allowed three runs on six hits and a walk with four strikeouts over eight innings to take the loss.

"Lackey, he had a career day. He was dominant. You can't fight that," Zito said. "It seemed like he was 0-2 every time, and it's tough to face a guy like that."

Aside from a drive with two out in the bottom of the sixth by Kotsay that sent Tommy Murphy to the wall before the center fielder hauled it in to end the inning, the A's did not threaten. Lackey said he never actually knew he had a perfect string going, but he was aware he was having his way with the A's lineup.

"I knew I hadn't been in the stretch for a while," Lackey said.

Lackey is not one to need encouragement or an excuse to stoke his competitive fire. If anything, Lackey's struggles have been more about channeling his emotions and on Friday, he had plenty of ammunition. In his last start against the A's, when Kendall charged the mound, he and the A's catcher were ejected following a bench-clearing fracas.

The Angels, A's and Lackey in particular, insisted that issue was dead and in the past, but he clearly found an extra gear on Friday, both physically and mentally.

"I was focused on these guys no matter what," Lackey said.

He improved to 7-2 in his career against the A's but earned his first victory in their home park.

"I just thought that guy's stuff was pretty exceptional tonight," A's manager Ken Macha said. "He didn't give us much of an opportunity."

The Angels gave Lackey all the runs he would need when Vladimir Guerrero singled to center to increase his hitting streak to nine games and Robb Quinlan followed with his fifth home run of the year to equal a career-high.

Inserted into the lineup because of his good numbers against Zito, Quinlan jumped on a 2-0 pitch from the A's left-hander and eased it over the wall in left-center for a 2-0 Angels lead.

"There was a guy in JC ball who owned me," Zito said of Quinlan, who is 7-for-17 with three homers in his career against Zito. "I guess this is a similar situation."

Then with two out in the top of the fifth, Chone Figgins put a charge into 1-2 offering from Zito that carried the wall down the left-field line. It was the fifth home run this season for Figgins and third from the right side as the Angels took a 3-0 lead.






