
ANAHEIM -- The Angels have always prided themselves on the depth of their starting pitchers. Now it's time to put that depth to the test.

Dustin Moseley will make his Major League debut on Monday against the Indians and Joe Saunders will follow his Triple-A Salt Lake teammate on Tuesday.

The pair will make spot starts to give Jered Weaver and Kelvim Escobar extra time to recover from minor injuries. Weaver is experiencing tendinitis in his biceps, while Escobar has a similar problem in his elbow.

Moseley, who is 8-4 this year with a 3.99 ERA for the Bees, found out just before his scheduled start on Saturday that he was getting called up.

"When [Bees manager Brian Harper] called me in there, the first thing I thought when he said Bill Stoneman said something was maybe I'm traded or something," Moseley said.

"I kind of sat there with my jaw on the ground. It was a dream come true."

If all goes to plan, Moseley will make only one start with both Escobar and Weaver set to pitch next weekend in Kansas City. The right-hander, though, isn't discouraged by his short stint in the Majors.

"I'm part of the Anaheim organization and if I'm in Salt Lake or if I'm here I just want to do something to benefit the ballclub," he said.

Moseley will have some level of comfort on Monday, with manager Mike Scioscia planning on starting former Bees teammate, Mike Napoli, behind the plate.

The Angels acquired Moseley from the Reds in 2004 in exchange for starter Ramon Ortiz. A first-round pick in the 2000 draft, the pitcher said he improved his technique last year while recovering from a right shoulder strain that limited him to 17 starts.

"I have more maturity as a pitcher," he said.  "I just learned some things about my delivery and different things that helped my arm and it's actually helped me throw more strikes this year."

The Angels optioned infielder Erick Aybar to Salt Lake after Sunday's game to make room for Moseley.

Rehab cut short: The Angels have stopped Casey Kotchman's rehab assignment at Salt Lake after the first baseman felt light-headed and dizzy following Saturday night's game.

Kotchman, who is attempting to return from a bout with mononucleosis, will return to Anaheim on Monday and be examined by team orthopedist Dr. Lewis Yocum.

In three games for the Bees, Kotchman was hitless in seven at-bats.
Still hurting: Darin Erstad's irritated ankle has shown little improvement, disappointing news to the outfielder, as well as his manager.

"Darin is real frustrated by the length and extent of all of this," Scioscia said.  "We're all hoping that something is going to come and [we'll] see some light at the end of the tunnel, but right now it doesn't look like we're there yet."

Erstad talked with Dr. Lewis Yokum on Saturday, and later mentioned surgery for the first time all year.

Scioscia, though, said he doesn't feel surgery can do much for Erstad's problems, which include signs of arthritis and degenerative changes.

The 32-year-old outfielder, who will be a free agent at season's end, has played in just 27 games this year and only five since April 30.

Kendrick starts: Facing the left-handed Casey Fossum, Howie Kendrick started at second base on Sunday.

The rookie, who was hitting .369 with a team-high 13 home runs before being recalled from Salt Lake on Friday, batted just .115 in 10 games with the Angels earlier this year.

Robb Quinlan, whose .364 average against left-handers is second on the team only to Vladimir Guerrero's .412 mark, also earned a start. Quinlan entered Sunday having hit five home runs in his last nine games.

Bobblehead fever: All fans attending Monday's game against the Indians will receive a Chone Figgins bobblehead.

The figurine depicts Figgins sliding into a base, appropriate considering the speedster entered Sunday leading the American League with 35 steals.

"It's nice to have a day like that," said Figgins, who has already been given a personal replica. "It's a good honor, I'll tell you that."

On the farm: Dallas McPherson (0-for-2) was hitless in the third game of his rehab stints at Salt Lake. ... Double-A Arkansas outfielder Terry Evans hit his 27th home run of the season, which leads all of the Minor Leagues. ... David Herndon pitched five scoreless innings for Rookie level Orem and picked up his first professional victory.

Up next: Moseley will oppose Jake Westbrook of the Indians as the clubs begin a three-game series on Monday at Angel Stadium at 7:05 p.m. PT.






