
The numbers are beyond impressive: .341 batting average, .400 on-base percentage, 73 runs scored in 99 games, 34 steals. Catalysts don't come any better than this.

Clearly, Chone Figgins has taken his game to a new level in 2007 while fighting through two hand injuries that kept him sidelined for a total of six weeks.

What doesn't show up in all those glossy statistics is his imprint on the club internally, spiritually. The little big man has evolved into a first-class leader, taking lessons learned from a variety of sources -- including lockermate and good buddy Garret Anderson -- and conveying them to young, impressionable teammates.

The circle is complete, a thought that crossed Figgins' mind recently when a struggling teammate approached him for some sage advice.

"It was funny," Figgins said, grinning. "This guy was asking me something the exact same thing I used to ask Garret when I was just getting started. I still talk to Garret all the time -- he's inside the game and has so much knowledge to offer. He tells me to be the same guy every day, no matter how you're going.

"That's the best kind of leadership you can give, by setting an example. You don't have to say a word. By being a professional, going about it the right way, you can have a big impact on teammates," Figgins said.

"That's why it gave me a good feeling, knowing that younger guys respected me enough to come to me and ask questions. That's what it's all about, applying what you've learned and sharing it."

Figgins broke in with the Angels in 2002 as a role player when they were on their way to a World Series triumph, becoming a regular two years later and the Majors' stolen-base king in 2005.

As versatile as anybody in the game, he has made starts at six positions and is a .294 career hitter with more steals (197) than any player in franchise history. And he's four months removed from his 30th birthday, right in the middle of his career.

"I was lucky to come to a team that had all these great leaders -- Garret, Darin Erstad, Bengie Molina, Adam Kennedy, Tim Salmon," Figgins said. "I could go on and on. I used to sit around and watch these guys, how they prepared. They didn't need to say anything. I just saw how they went about their business and picked up everything I could.

"I owe everything to those guys who came before me -- and there are a lot of them that I learned from."

His latest challenge is to recover enough strength in his left wrist -- injured taking a swing against the Yankees on Aug. 21 -- to hit from the right side as well as left-handed. The left hand is his bottom hand when he bats right-handed, the foundation of his swing.

Returning to the lineup Friday night after missing two weeks, Figgins banged out three hits and walked, scoring all the runs in a 3-2 victory over the Indians.

"Chone's having an incredible year," manager Mike Scioscia said. "He's been a huge part of our offensive chemistry, and he's done the job with the glove too."

Figgins had to sit out the final two games against Indians southpaws over the weekend, and the Angels lost both.

"I have to be smart with it, not try to do too much," Figgins said of the bone bruise outside the left wrist. "I hate not being able to play, but I can't risk re-injuring it."







"Chone's having an incredible year. He's been a huge part of our offensive chemistry, and he's done the job with the glove too."




-- Mike Scioscia







Figgins' influence runs deep on the likes of Casey Kotchman, Howie Kendrick, Maicer Izturis and Erick Aybar, young Angels in the early stages of their careers.

"He's a great role model for me," said rookie outfielder Nathan Haynes, Figgins' closest friend on the club. Their relationship dates to 2001 when Figgins -- a fourth-round pick in 1997 by Colorado out of Brandon (Fla.) High School -- was traded to the Angels by the Rockies. Figgins and Haynes were teammates at Double-A Arkansas, where Haynes helped the newcomer with the club's way of doing things.

"Chone never stops working on his game," Haynes said. "He works as hard as any player I've ever been around. He's never satisfied. You have to ride with the ups and downs. This is a very humbling game."

Figgins went through some hard times early this season after fracturing the tips of his right index and middle fingers in Spring Training fielding a ground ball.

When he came back a month into the season, easing back into his role as third baseman and projected to hit ninth with free-agent import Gary Matthews Jr. assuming the leadoff spot, Figgins found the adjustment difficult.

"I never had an injury before, and breaking those two fingers made for some problems offensively and defensively," Figgins said. "This game is hard enough when everything is going good, but to have to come to grips with an injury like that makes it even more challenging."

Compounding matters even further, Figgins wasn't finding any holes. He'd bottomed out, hitting .133, when Haynes was recalled from Triple-A Salt Lake at the end of May.

"Nate knew me better than anyone," Figgins said. "We work out together in the winter, and he knows what I need to do to be successful. He saw that I wasn't staying with my approach. What happened was I'd hit the ball hard my first two at-bats and have nothing to show for it, and then I'd start making changes."

Haynes, one of the fastest players in baseball, fought his way through eight surgeries after entering the professional game as a first-round Draft pick by Oakland. He never lost sight of his goal, and all through those years of struggle in the Minors he'd use Figgins as his model, driving him.

Now here he was at last, in the big time -- and his role model needed his advice.

"I just told Chone to stay with his approach, to keep his confidence," Haynes said. "He finally started getting some hits to fall -- and then everything fell into place."

Reclaiming his leadoff spot when Matthews moved down in the lineup to add production, Figgins set a franchise record in June for hits in a month with 53, reached .300 and kept churning away.

Since May 31, he's batting .405 (119-for-294), leading the Majors with his .439 on-base percentage as a leadoff man. Clutch? He's 10th in the American League with runners in scoring position, hitting .356.

"You just take it day by day, doing everything you can that day," said Figgins, who spends about 45 minutes each day in the cage fine-tuning with batting coach Mickey Hatcher.

From the depths to the top of the charts, Figgins cranked out six hits June 18 against Houston, a career performance that ended with his game-winning walk-off triple. He was making all the plays at third and stealing bases with the elite, men like the Mets' Jose Reyes and the Dodgers' Juan Pierre.

It was Pierre, when they were teammates as young prospects in Colorado, who motivated Figgins with his work ethic.

"Juan was always the first one to get to the ballpark, going all the way back," Figgins said of the Dodgers' first-year center fielder. "He loves the game and throws himself into it. He really inspired me to become the best player I could.

"When I was a kid, the players I watched were guys like Ozzie Smith. I loved that Cardinals team; they played the game the way I did. I even did backflips like Ozzie."

He parked the backflips, but Figgins' engine is humming as a quietly effective leader by shining example on another club with World Series aspirations.






