
ANGELS 6, D-BACKS 1
at Tempe, Ariz.
Friday, March 20

Angels at the plate: Gary Matthews Jr., who walked and scored in his first at-bat, continued his sizzling spring with a two-run triple to center, giving him 10 total bases in 10 at-bats. Torii Hunter, who scored twice, triggered a two-run second inning with a double to right-center. Howie Kendrick lined a single, walked and grounded out sharply in three at-bats. Chris Pettit doubled home a run, as did Ryan Budde.

D-backs at the plate: Chad Tracy doubled to right in his first at-bat as designated hitter and dunked another double into shallow left his next time up, scoring on Tony Clark's single. Eric Byrnes, making his first start in center field, flied to left in all three of his at-bats.

Angels on the mound: Jered Weaver was one out away from four spotless innings when Tracy dropped a double in front of three defenders. A walk and a single gave the D-backs one run in four innings against the right-hander, who yielded four hits while striking out three. Brian Fuentes pitched a perfect inning, and Anthony Ortega, making his Cactus League debut after experiencing forearm tightness, allowed a hit and a walk in a scoreless frame. Mason Tobin struck out the first two men he faced in a perfect seventh.

D-backs on the mound: Jon Garland, hurt by three infield errors, yielded four runs, only one earned, in four innings. He yielded three hits and two walks, striking out one man. Scott Schoeneweis pitched a scoreless inning, allowing a hit and a walk, and Tony Pena struck out two men in his one scoreless inning, allowing one hit.

Cactus League records: Angels 16-4; D-backs 7-13.

Up next: The Angels host the Brewers on Saturday at 1:05 p.m. PT. Nick Adenhart (1-0, 5.40 ERA in three appearances, two as a starter) faces Matt Bush. Also scheduled to pitch for the Angels are southpaw Darren Oliver and right-handers Justin Speier and Kevin Jepsen. Vladimir Guerrero, who made his Cactus League debut for the Angels in right field on Friday, could be back in the lineup, probably as a DH, manager Mike Scioscia said.






