
ANAHEIM -- Angels right-hander Kelvim Escobar returned to the clubhouse Monday and said his injured shoulder feels strong after completing a throwing program in Arizona, where he had sessions of long toss at 120 feet.

Escobar said that while there's no timetable for his return, he'd like to be back sometime after the All-Star break and that he wouldn't be opposed to heading to the bullpen as a reliever.

"I want to get my health back and help the team in any way -- it doesn't matter to me," Escobar said. "It's about winning, and any role you need me, that's what I'm going to do. As long as you help out the team and feel like you are contributing to winning, then that's all that matters."

Escobar is familiar with the bullpen. He has appeared in 209 games as a relief pitcher in his career with a 4.44 ERA but hasn't pitched out of the 'pen since the end of the 2005 season with the Angels.

Angels manager Mike Scioscia said Escobar will throw a flat-ground session on Wednesday, and then, if everything goes well, he could be throwing off a mound 7-10 days later. Scioscia said that the Angels haven't ruled out bringing Escobar back as a reliever, but it's still too early to tell.

"We'll be open to anything as we move forward, but it's premature to talk about what role Kelvim will come back in," Scioscia said. "He's got some big steps that have to happen. He's gonna have to get his game together on the mound and that's gonna take time."

Escobar, 32, is coming off a year in which he established a career high in wins with 18 and had a 3.40 ERA in 30 starts. But Escobar began to experience soreness in his shoulder in September and was diagnosed with a labrum tear in his right shoulder in late March after feeling pain in 45-foot throwing sessions in mid-March.

Escobar thought at the time that he might need surgery, but now that his recent workouts have gone well, he said the thought has left his mind.

"I'm not even thinking about surgery anymore," Escobar said. "My mind right now is about preparing a comeback. It's getting a lot stronger. I don't have the pinch or tightness I had before. The fact I can throw 120 feet for 5-10 minutes is a good sign. I test it and it feels strong."






