
ANAHEIM -- He may not have received much attention for this year's All-Star Game, but Mike Napoli is certainly getting noticed.

The rookie catcher has been the missing piece in the middle of the Angels batting order, and lately has been its lone power supply.

Napoli drilled two solo homers Saturday against the Dodgers to boost his American League rookie-leading total to 10. He also leads AL rookies with a .444 on-base percentage, 25 walks and a .629 slugging percentage entering Sunday's series finale with the crosstown rival Dodgers.

"Right now, he's making a case for keeping his [spot in the] lineup every day," manager Mike Scioscia said.

Napoli hit fifth Saturday as he recorded his second multihomer game in a career that is all of 42 games old, and batted sixth in Sunday's game. He made his presence felt immediately when he was called up to replace the struggling Jeff Mathis on May 4. In Detroit that day, Napoli homered in his first at-bat to join Don Rose in 1972 and Dave Machemar in 1978 as one of three Angels to accomplish the feat.

In his last 18 starts, Napoli has eight homers and 18 RBIs, while his total of 10 homers is second to Vladimir Guerrero, who leads the club with 16.

"I'm doing the best that I can to produce [by] coming out and playing hard," Napoli said.

The Angels carry only two catchers, but to help boost a sagging offense, Scioscia said that he would consider using Napoli as the designated hitter on days when Jose Molina catches.

Dallas improving: The Angels are being deliberate with Dallas McPherson in his recovery from a lower back strain.

The third baseman was scratched from the lineup June 23 after suffering back spasms and was placed on the 15-day disabled list. McPherson has a history of back problems, suffering a herniated disk in 2003 and a lower back strain last year that limited him to one Cactus League game and forced him to open the 2005 season on the DL.




Complete coverage &gt;

McPherson, who also had surgery last season to remove a bone spur from his left hip last August, is currently working out at a physical therapy clinic in Tempe, Ariz.

"Dallas is doing well. When [his back] goes out, it takes some time to get back," Scioscia said. "He is making progress, but he won't be ready when he's due to come off the DL, and probably won't be back until after the All-Star break."

McPherson is eligible to come off the DL on Saturday, when the Angels are in Oakland. He is hitting .266 with four doubles, six homers and 12 RBIs in 109 at-bats this season. Maicer Izturis has been the primary third baseman in his absence.

Small steps: Casey Kotchman is slowly making progress in Arizona. The first baseman, who has been battling the effects of mononucleosis, which was caused by the Epstein-Barr virus, is currently working through baseball fundamentals but has yet to play any games.

The Angels had counted on Kotchman to handle first base this season, which prompted the move of Darin Erstad to center field. But Kotchman grew increasingly fatigued during Spring Training and was placed on the DL May 9.

There is no timetable for Kotchman's return and playing this season for the Angels remains in doubt.

"There will come a date when a guy has to be functional and playing and have a stroke to come up here and help," Scioscia said. "It doesn't matter how many Minor League at-bats a guy might have. There is going to be an adjustment to Major League pitching. We aren't to that date yet. He still has time."

Kotchman hit .152 with one homer, two doubles and six RBIs in 79 at-bats this season with the Angels after hitting .421 with three homers and 15 RBIs this spring.

On the farm: Joe Saunders (10-3) allowed two runs on five hits and two walks with six strikeouts over six innings in Triple-A Salt Lake's 8-5 victory at Sacramento on Saturday to become the first 10-game winner in the Pacific Coast League this season. ... Brandon Wood had two doubles and a homer as Double-A Arkansas split a doubleheader with Tulsa. ... Hank Conger, the Angels' first-round pick in the First-Year Player Draft this year, went 4-for-5 to raise his average to .424 in eight games at the Rookie League level.

On deck: The Angels will head out onto the road for a seven-game trip that will take them into the All-Star break. Right-hander Jered Weaver will face right-hander Felix Hernandez in Seattle on Monday at 7:05 p.m. PT.






