
ANAHEIM -- Orlando Cabrera's strength lies in his glove, but his bat has been doing the heavy lifting lately.

The Angels shortstop knocked in the go-ahead runs on Opening Day and feted the hometown fans in Friday's local lid-lifter with a two-run shot just 10 pitches into the bottom of the first.

With Kelvim Escobar returning to form with six nearly flawless innings despite a broken nail on the middle finger of his right hand, the Angels recorded a 4-1 victory over the Yankees in front of an Angel Stadium regular-season record crowd of 44,221 that witnessed the raising of the fifth divisional flag in franchise history.


Escobar also struck out two to run his career total to 1,000.

"It was good for us," Cabrera said of defeating the Yankees in the home opener. "You have to be prepared for any inning for these guys to come back. We have to be focused when he play these guys and that is what we did."

Cabrera's offensive role is not to drive in runs. As the No. 2 hitter, Cabrera is expected to make contact, move runners over and allow Chone Figgins, who hits in front of him, an ample opportunity to steal a base. But he also has Vladimir Guerrero hitting behind him, which means he sees a good pitch from time to time, and some not so good.

"He is a good situational hitter, but he also has the ability to occasionally drive the ball," manager Mike Scioscia said. "Tonight, he was able to drive one."

On Friday night, Figgins did his job by hitting a double into the right-field corner that had him thinking triple when he rounded first but instead pulled into second standing up. Cabrera's lone thought during the ensuing at-bat was to move his leadoff man over and he proceeded to foul off two quick pitches.

After Yankees starter Shawn Chacon ran the count even, Cabrera fouled off another ball and began thinking of going the other way. Chacon then threw a sinker that Cabrera feared was going to hit him, so he made a defensive swing.

It went out of the park.

"I have no idea how I hit that ball; I was just trying to get the guy to third base," said Cabrera, who might have a little Vladdy in him. "I thought the whole time what to tell you guys, but ... I have no idea what happened."

Cabrera, who now has 82 Major League home runs to his credit, can best described to have gap power. But as his manager said, the ball will jump off his bat on occasion.

"It was not expected, but I'll take it," Cabrera said.

The early outburst helped pave the way for Escobar to work into a groove. Not blessed with a surplus of run support when he posted an 11-12 record in 2004 for the Angels, the right-hander was gracious with the lead.

A Yankees batter reached base in every inning Escobar pitched, but he never had more than one on base at a time. He allowed the lone run in the fifth after Bernie Williams reached base on a slow rolling infield hit that Casey Kotchman had trouble fielding and couldn't get to Escobar in time covering first.

Johnny Damon then laced a double to right-center, the hardest ball hit by a Yankee all night, and Williams raced around from first to score. Escobar escaped that jam and allowed a two-out single in the sixth.

A year after making three trips to the disabled list and having surgery on his right elbow to shave a bone spur and remove bone chips, Escobar's return buoys the Angels staff.

"I am very happy to be back in the rotation; I feel pretty good," Escobar said. "I'm going to do everything to stay healthy."

Escobar, who allowed six hits and did not walk a batter to pick up the win, split his nail in the third inning. He said he first noticed it was bleeding and added that he pitched through pain in the sixth inning.

He had a similar problem when he pitched in Toronto and is hoping it will heal quickly.

"It is not looking good right now," Escobar said. "Between now and my next start, we'll see.

Escobar tried to glue the nail Friday but it continued to open. He will explore treatment options over the next couple of days.

The Yankees made the game interesting in the seventh when they loaded the bases with one out on two walks by J.C. Romero and one by Scot Shields. But Shields got Gary Sheffield to ground into a double play to end the inning.

"The seventh inning was a little hairy," Scioscia said. "That is a recipe for disaster when walk three guys but Shields was able to get out of it."






