
ANAHEIM -- You can phrase the question any way you like, but the answer won't change: Mike Scioscia isn't about to take individual credit for having risen to the top of the Angels' all-time managerial victories rankings.

Speaking with reporters prior to Saturday's second game of a weekend series with the White Sox, Scioscia wouldn't budge on the democratic notion that he was only one part of the 626 games the Angels have won with him at the helm.

Does that mean he feels no sense of individual pride?

"It's tough to say what you're proud of," Scioscia said. "For me, it's not as much pride as a feeling of moving in the right direction."

Seven-plus years, one World Series championship (2002), two division championships (2004 and 2005) -- in each of those championship seasons, the team earned more than 90 victories, an achievement the Angels have managed just four other times in team history.

Bill Rigney, the man whose record Scioscia broke, managed the club in its first eight full seasons (1961-68), then was replaced by Lefty Phillips after 39 games of the 1969 season. Rigney's best finish in the eight-team American League -- division play was not yet part of Major League Baseball -- was third, which the Angels achieved in 1962. That was also the year of Rigney's highest single-season victory total, 86.

Clyde Wright, who pitched for the Angels from 1966-1973, recalls Rigney's toughness and says it was a different sort of toughness than Scioscia's competitive drive.

"Rigney would get on you and chew you out," Wright said. "He'd say, 'Why'd you do that. You know that's not right. I don't want to see that happen again.'

"Scioscia just looks at you."

Maybe it's not so different from the way Scioscia just looks at what he achieved during the seven-plus years that culminated with his record win on Friday night.

"It's something that's a tribute at the team level," Scioscia reiterated. "Everyone contributes to the achievement. It's fun. I love it."

Aybar's progress: At a time when the injury demon has been tormenting the Angels (see Garret Anderson's hip flexor, Howie Kendrick's left hand and Juan Rivera's broken leg), Scioscia praised Erick Aybar's 2007 start as a tribute to his discipline.

"Like a lot of guys, his versatility was important to him getting the opportunity to play in the Major Leagues," Scioscia said. "He's worked extremely hard with Alfredo [Griffin, the Angels' first base coach] at second base. We definitely need depth at second."

Aybar's .295 batting average coming into Saturday's game was fourth among Angels regulars, behind Reggie Willits (.395), Vladimir Guerrero (.354), Howie Kendrick (.327) and Gary Matthews Jr. (.295).

Scioscia also noted a couple of good plays Aybar made in the field during Friday's 4-1 win over the White Sox, saying, "He went to his left very well, and he's definitely feeling more comfortable."

O.C.'s rare boot: Friday night's game saw the first error of 2007 for shortstop Orlando Cabrera, a stat that was news to Scioscia.

"Throwing-wise, he's as accurate from shortstop as anybody in the game," Scioscia said.

Early in the 2006 season, Cabrera encountered a rough patch in the field.

"I don't think there's any scientific way you could look at it," Scioscia said. "He had the same preparation he always had. After we got into the season, he was terrific."

Hot Halos: With multi-hit performances in eight of his last 14 games, Matthews raised his batting average from .217 to .298. ... In 28 games, Guerrero had 29 RBIs. ... Willits hit safely in 10 of his last 11 games, entering the weekend. ... John Lackey (4-2) came into Saturday's start having allowed three runs or fewer in each of his six starts. He was touched for three runs in the first two innings on Saturday.

Up next: The Angels send right-hander Bartolo Colon (3-0, 3.79) to the mound to face White Sox lefty Mark Buehrle (2-1, 2.97) in Sunday's series finale. First pitch is scheduled for 1:05 p.m. PT.






