
ANAHEIM -- The Angels entered Tuesday with a 1 1/2-game lead in the American League West, 13 games remaining on the schedule and one goal: Win the division.

But to attain that goal, the club is also quick to recognize its most glaring need.

"At this time of year, runs are harder and harder to come by," Darin Erstad said. "Given that we haven't been getting hit after hit on a consistent basis, our offensive execution is going to be key."

And therein lies the puzzle that has been the 2005 Angels.

This year's team has been built around pitching and defense, and the numbers suggest that those efforts have been successful. The staff ERA is fifth in the AL, while the club's starters are second in the league with a 3.75 ERA entering Tuesday.

The defense has also done its job, and is currently tied atop the AL with the Mariners with a .986 fielding percentage. The offense, however, has been sporadic in its support of the pitching staff, and the club is well aware of what it will take to defend its AL West crown.

"We are facing some good offensive clubs, so we will have to pitch well, but we also have to have some guys in our lineup pick it up on the offensive end to take the pressure off our pitching," manager Mike Scioscia said.

The Angels opened a three-game series against the Rangers on Tuesday, making it 10 of the team's last 13 games of the year within the division.

Aside from a three-game break against the Devil Rays this weekend, the Angels will travel to Oakland in what could be a decisive four-game series with their nearest competitor before capping the regular season with three games in Texas.

A year ago, the Angels made up a three-game deficit over the season's final nine games to win the West. While that has provided the team with confidence that it can maintain its lead and win the division this season, 2004 is essentially history.

"Sure, we know we can get it done, but we feel that way anyway," Erstad said. "We have to keep looking forward."

On target: Jarrod Washburn missed his second turn in the rotation when Bartolo Colon moved into the left-hander's slot for Tuesday's series opener against the Rangers. Washburn has been plagued by tendinitis in his left forearm for a good portion of the season.

With the day off Monday, the Angels were able to have everyone move up a day without going on short rest. John Lackey will start on Wednesday and Ervin Santana will pitch the series finale on Thursday, with Paul Byrd drawing the opener against the Devil Rays on Friday. That allows Washburn to start Saturday, a layoff of 15 days, if he emerges from Wednesday's bullpen session without incident.

"We'll see how he feels and go from there," Scioscia said.

Washburn last pitched in Chicago on Sept. 9 and allowed five runs in five innings, but escaped with a no-decision when the Angels rallied. He said the injury has forced him to take longer to loosen up with each start, and the Angels felt it was best to shut him down to prevent further injury.

Getting noticed: Chone Figgins is indispensable as an Angel, playing no fewer than six positions as a starter for the club this season. Depending on the pitcher, Figgins has been switching between third base and center field down the stretch and continues to play a key role.

Possibly hindered by the label of utility player, Figgins nonetheless has supporters for inclusion when it comes time for discussion about postseason awards.

"A guy like Figgins gets [robbed]. He's got a position, but he can play all over. He's got to get a Gold Glove somewhere," Rangers manager Buck Showalter said. "They should have a utility man Gold Glove."

On deck: The Angels will continue their three-game series with the Rangers on Wednesday at 7:05 p.m. PT. Lackey (12-5, 3.46 ERA) will face Texas right-hander Kameron Loe (9-5, 3.42 ERA).






