
ANAHEIM -- It's often noted that Adam Kennedy has a higher batting average than any No. 9 hitter in baseball. But the way the second baseman is swinging, he'd have the highest average at any spot in any lineup in the American League.

Kennedy entered Tuesday's action batting .337, which would lead the AL if he had enough plate appearances to qualify for the batting title (he missed April while recovering from knee surgery).

Angels manager Mike Scioscia has faced questions for months now about why he would bat the league's most efficient hitter in the spot that guarantees him fewer at-bats than anyone else in the lineup, so he's gotten pretty adept at answering them.

"Adam creates a lot of situations for the situational hitters that are following behind him, at the top of our lineup," Scioscia said. "We're very comfortable with the top three; they've been doing their job. ... Where Adam is right now has worked for our lineup, and we're gonna keep it that way."

One through three hitters Chone Figgins, Orlando Cabrera and Darin Erstad are all batting .274 or better with runners in scoring position, which comes in handy given how often Kennedy's been on base -- 124 times in 89 games, with a team-leading .390 on-base percentage through Monday.

Kennedy can drive them in, too. He entered Tuesday's game batting .429 with 28 RBIs in 56 at-bats with men in scoring position. On Monday, he tied a career high with four hits, giving him 15 hits in his last 29 at-bats.

"He's just a professional hitter," Scioscia said. "He moves the ball around and takes what the pitcher gives him."

Boston's Johnny Damon leads the league with a .334 average, while the Angels' Vladimir Guerrero ranks second with a .327 mark entering Tuesday. Kennedy, though, probably won't be able to join the official list of batting leaders. He averages 3.53 plate appearances per game played, and at that rate, if he played every one of the Angels' remaining games, he'd finish with 472 plate appearances, 30 shy of the qualifying requirement.

Admiral still dry docked: Scratched starter Paul Byrd reported Tuesday that he was pain-free for the second consecutive day, but the Angels are planning to rest the nine-game winner until his spot in the rotation comes up again on Sunday.

"We didn't want to push it and get him out there and find out he's not 100 percent," Scioscia said.

Byrd volunteered to pitch out of the bullpen this week, which Scioscia said is "a possibility," although the manager said Byrd would not be used Tuesday in any capacity. Byrd said he was "in bad shape" over the weekend due to back spasms, but 15 minutes of adjustments by the Angels' chiropractor on Monday fixed the problem.

"It's happened a couple times in my career," Byrd said. "I see a chiropractor and I'm fine the next day."

While Byrd isn't happy about missing his start, he's glad that the Angels saw eye-to-eye with him on treatment for his back spasms, which he also experienced in 1999 with Philadelphia and in 2002 with Kansas City.

"One of the things I like about the Angels is, we have a team chiropractor," Byrd said. "On some teams, it's like a dirty word."

Saunders' good stuff: Byrd's replacement on Tuesday, Joe Saunders, made his Major League debut on the heels of one of his finest Minor League efforts.

The left-hander allowed only four hits in eight shutout innings for Triple-A Salt Lake on Aug. 12, walking one and striking out six.

Scioscia said the 6-foot-3 southpaw works with a three-pitch arsenal: a fastball with "good command and a little tail on it," a slurve and a "very, very good changeup."

In the early going Tuesday, Saunders' fastball clocked in at 88-90 mph, while his changeup registered 81-83 mph and his slurve came in at 71-74 mph.

Another day for Anderson: Garret Anderson was held out of the lineup Tuesday for the third consecutive day.

Anderson was examined by team orthopedist Dr. Lewis Yocum on Tuesday, and he will have additional lab work done to determine whether corrective measures might be warranted for the patellar tendinitis in his left knee and the soreness in his right lower back.

McPherson's travels: Results from Dallas McPherson's MRI on Monday revealed irritation in his left hip joint. The third baseman, who is currently on the disabled list, is scheduled to see hip specialist Dr. Marc Philipon at the Steadman Hawkins Clinic in Vail, Colo., on Wednesday.

On deck: Jarrod Washburn (6-6, 3.33 ERA) will face Toronto right-hander Josh Towers (9-9, 4.25 ERA) at 7:05 p.m. PT on Wednesday in the final meeting of the season between the Angels and the Blue Jays.






