
ANAHEIM -- For a guy whose excellent season ended prematurely on Aug. 13 with a dive in the field resulting in a fractured left thumb, Maicer Izturis was in remarkably good spirits on Tuesday.

The Venezuelan shortstop, four days away from his 28th birthday, was relieved after a doctor examined his hand and told him the torn ulnar collateral ligament that required surgery is healing well and he's right on schedule to be back playing baseball next spring.

"I wish I could play in October," Izturis said, grinning. "But I'll be back next year. I have time for it to heal right, and I feel good about it now. It was bad luck, that's all you can say.

"Starting today, I'm here with the team again. I can exercise the hand starting today, flexing it up and down, up and down.

"If everything goes well, maybe I can play winter ball in Venezuela. That would help me get ready for next season."

Izturis opened the season as the starting shortstop, giving way to Erick Aybar and moving over to second base when Howie Kendrick strained a hamstring in Seattle on April 13. Returning to shortstop when Aybar dislocated his right pinkie in Toronto diving for a ball on May 20, Izturis played at an exceptionally high level until he made his fateful dive against the Mariners on Aug. 13 at Angel Stadium.

In what was to be his final game of the season, Izturis had two doubles and a single, scoring twice and driving in a run.

Leaving the field in pain that night, he feared the worst and got the bad news that he'd need surgery to repair the thumb.

Izturis finished the season batting .269 in 79 games. The switch-hitter had been so productive that manager Mike Scioscia had him batting third in the order before the July 29 acquisition of Mark Teixeira from Atlanta, moving up to the No. 2 spot between Chone Figgins and Teixeira.

With Izturis in the No. 3 hole, the Angels were 11-3. With Izturis at shortstop, the club was 34-16 -- a .680 winning percentage.

"It was a good season, until I got hurt," Izturis said, having originally injured the thumb on Aug. 1 in New York against the Yankees. "I really like playing for this team and I'm already looking forward to next year. I'll be pulling hard for the guys to go all the way."






