
OAKLAND -- The Angels appeared road weary at the front end of their 10-game trip, but gained strength as their journey took them westward.

By dropping three out of four games in Baltimore, the Angels' first lengthy absence from their home ballpark grew serious. Sloppy play in the field wasted otherwise solid pitching and the offense was unable to make up the difference.

Improvements in Minnesota, though marginal, were enough to take a three-game series from the Twins as the offense stepped up with 39 hits.

But against the A's, the Angels regained the steady hand of their defense and the result Sunday was a 4-3 win that was the third straight one-run game between the two teams.

"If we can continue to keep playing better like we did the last half of the trip, I think we can look at our record and say we'll be OK," said Adam Kennedy, who turned a pair of double plays and underscored the Angels' strength is still pitching and defense. "We got something out of it; we got on a roll. We started to pick things up a little bit. If we can continue to play well, that 5-5 [trip] was worth it."

Kelvim Escobar was mostly sharp through seven innings. The right-hander allowed three runs on five hits and was able to confine the two home runs he surrendered to the solo variety. He also walked two and struck out five while taking another significant step forward as a quality starter.

"He hasn't started that long if you look at the big picture," manager Mike Scioscia said. "But if this guy stays healthy, he's young enough, he stands a chance to be one of the most dynamic starters in our league."

And as they did a day earlier, relievers Scot Shields and Francisco Rodriguez combined to shut down the A's over the final two innings, with Rodriguez earning his seventh save.

"We all know how good our bullpen is," Escobar said. "I know the game was one-run, but we have a lot of confidence in those guys."

A's starter Esteban Loaiza (0-3) allowed three runs on seven hits and a walk over 3 2/3 innings to take the loss. The right-hander left the game with a spasm in his trapezius muscle between his neck and shoulder.

Escobar (3-1) opened the game by tossing three perfect innings and then the defense behind him took center stage.

With the Angels leading 3-0 on two RBIs by Vladimir Guerrero and another by Jose Molina, Mark Kotsay opened the bottom of the fourth with a base hit up the middle. Nick Swisher and Eric Chavez both followed with shallow singles to load the bases.

Frank Thomas fouled out to first, but Escobar lost Milton Bradley to a walk and forced in a run. Adam Melhuse then hit a sharp grounder that appeared destined for center field and at least two runs but Kennedy, who was shaded slightly to his right, snared it and calmly flipped the ball to Orlando Cabrera to start an inning-ending double play.

"That play was the key to the game right there," Escobar said. "I've seen him make some great plays but that was huge."

Kennedy, who has never won a Gold Glove Award but has consistently played to that level of excellence, simply applied a little experience.

"I had him played a little to the hole, a step closer to the bag to try and make the double play," Kennedy said. "I could see on the first two pitches that he wasn't trying to do too much. I took a step to my right to try and cover a little more ground."

Prior to the at-bat, Angels pitching coach Bud Black made a mound visit to calm Escobar down and just remind him to try to get the ground ball for the double play.

The strategy worked and, after Guerrero drilled a solo homer in the top of the fifth, his fourth of the year that curled around the foul pole and landed in the second-deck left field seats, the Angels had provided enough offense.

Nick Swisher's solo shot in the sixth and Bradley's in the seventh turned the game into a one-run affair, the 14th in the last 24 games between the Angels and A's.

But the main difference in the series that allowed a road trip to end on a positive note despite a .500 mark in the 10 games was the play of the defense.

They committed six errors on the trip to increase their season total to 16 after making just 87 errors all of last season. But in the last two games with the A's, both victories, the Angels played error-free ball and will return home for an eight-game homestand at one game over .500.

"We're going to try and make every play. Errors and making mistakes are part of the game," said Cabrera, who combined with Kennedy on a second double play to end the sixth. "I don't think errors are going to keep us down. We just have to try and make the next one."

Kennedy went 2-for-4 in the game to increase his average to .373 on the young season. but his play in the field Sunday provided greater satisfaction.

"There is no doubt about it. It is a big situation, a big game, a fun game," Kennedy said. "It is fun to play defense like that and make big plays for your pitcher."






