
BOSTON -- The Angels' bullpen is in search mode right now, scouring for the key that will return it to past success.

The group that has been the strength of the ballclub over the last four seasons has lost its way over the last few games, and the team is finding it difficult to generate any momentum.

Friday night was merely the latest installment of a serial that has been leading the Angels through plot lines that end in disappointment. Kelvim Escobar pitched six strong innings and the offense rapped out 13 hits, but the bullpen collapsed and the Red Sox blew past the Angels with six runs in their last two innings for a 7-4 win to open the series.

Johnny Damon supplied the big blow. The Red Sox center fielder launched a two-out, three-run double off Scot Shields that sailed over Steve Finley's head in straightaway center to bust open a 4-4 tie.

Each series in the Angels' 12-game, four-city trip is becoming more critical than the last, and with Friday's loss, they stand 1-3 on the trip with two games remaining against the Red Sox before they move on for Interleague matchups in Atlanta and New York.

The loss also extended the Angels' streak to nine straight in Fenway Park, a string that includes last year's loss in the American League Division Series and stretches back to the end of the 2003 season.

"We've had a tough time here," manager Mike Scioscia said. "We just didn't get it going tonight. They're a good club."

In only his second start since returning from the disabled list with a bone spur in his right elbow, Escobar was pulled after throwing 95 pitches. With Brendan Donnelly, Shields and Francisco Rodriguez all available to pitch an inning, the game seemed to flow as planned.

But Donnelly struggled from his first batter, when Kevin Millar doubled to left on the first pitch. Donnelly then walked Bill Mueller on five pitches and Mark Bellhorn followed by pulling the first pitch into the right-field corner for an RBI double to score Millar. Damon jumped on the next pitch for an RBI groundout and Donnelly then walked Edgar Renteria.

Five batters, two walks, two doubles and Donnelly's night was done. Three runs scored in the frame, all charged to Donnelly.

"I don't have a theory. I don't have an answer. If I had an answer, I'd give it to you," Donnelly said. "Haven't you ever known a hitter to be in a slump? I'm in a slump."

As it was with the hitters in April and May, when slumps seemed to be contagious throughout the lineup, that is now the case with the bullpen. Shields has allowed seven runs in three of his last four relief appearances, that coming on the heels of a string in which he allowed three runs over 23 appearances.

Shields relieved Donnelly on Friday and allowed a sac fly to David Ortiz that tied the game at 4, but retired Manny Ramirez on a comebacker to end the inning. Trot Nixon followed in the eighth by leading off with a single, but Shields struck out Jason Varitek and got Millar to fly to left.

Scioscia elected to walk Mueller intentionally, but Shields struggled to find his command and did not throw a strike to Bellhorn, issuing the second baseman a four-pitch walk. Damon followed with a three-run rocket to center that was essentially the ballgame.

Shields was ahead of Damon with a 1-2 count and tried to throw a slider down, but did not get the pitch into the location he wanted.

"That was one of the hardest balls I've ever seen hit," said Shields, who took the loss.

Finley said it was partly a positioning issue.

"They kept pulling me in and pulling me in as he got deeper in the count, because he hits a lot of bloopers," Finley said. "He hit a line shot at me, and it just kept rising and sailing."

There is no secret as to what got Shields (4-3) in trouble Friday -- it was the walk to Bellhorn. In the recent outings in which Shields has found trouble, he's had at least one walk.

"I'm walking too many guys, that is all there is to it," Shields said. "I've done that in the past and I'm doing that now. I have to bear down. I did that early in the year and I went back to the drawing board. I have to do that again."

Scioscia gives much of the credit to the bullpen for his team's start this season, but admits the group might be pressing and doesn't have quite the depth it has had in the past, which is adding pressure to the back end of the bullpen. He said Donnelly may be overthrowing right now and will try to figure out the problem.

"We're going to sit down and look at some film to evaluate and see if there is something he's doing," Scioscia said. "If that is a factor of pitch mechanics or pitch selection, I don't know."

The Angels started well Friday, tying the game in the third on a groundout by Darin Erstad and appeared to take control when they scored three runs in the top of the fifth. Orlando Cabrera hit a one-out double in the inning and scored on an RBI single by Adam Kennedy, who went 4-for-4.

Chone Figgins drilled a two-run homer off Red Sox starter David Wells, the second of his career from the right side. His first was on July 23, 2004, off Jamie Moyer in Seattle.

Escobar did his part as well, allowing an unearned run on just three hits and two walks. The right-hander also stuck out eight, using more offspeed pitches as his velocity was down, but was left with a no-decision.

"I think I'm going through a process where I'm going to get stronger as I go through the season," Escobar said. "I haven't pitched a lot this year."








