
The corners of the infield remain open where the Angels will have no shortage of candidates this spring.

Unlike recent camps that began with players like Darin Erstad, Troy Glaus and even Casey Kotchman and Dallas McPherson recognized as starters while every other corner infielder was playing for a reserve role or simply a spot on the team, this February will be all-inclusive.

Short of holding an open tryout, the Angels will give all reasonable candidates a chance at the third- and first-base positions this spring.

The corners have been anything but settled over the last two seasons, which saw eight different players make at least one start at third or first last year and nine players make a start at one of those positions in 2005. Contrast that with the entire outfield which had nine different starters last season and eight different starters in '05.

As manager, Mike Scioscia likes to adjust his lineup card to keep it fresh, but the moves in the last two years have been about substance over style.

"We had to move guys around both in the field and in the lineup to try and find some consistency," Scioscia said.

That proved no more difficult than it did at first base in 2006, which Erstad vacated in favor of Kotchman. Erstad had won a Gold Glove at first base in 2004, but his services were needed in center field, a position that netted a pair of Gold Gloves (2000 and 2002).

Supplanting Erstad with Kotchman was not a stretch, as the 2001 first-round pick had been on the fast track. But the plan was essentially derailed in Spring Training last year when Kotchman grew exhausted while battling mononucleosis and Erstad fought the effects of bone spurs in his right foot.

As a result, six players drew starts at first base last season. Most of that group is returning to the competition this spring with Shea Hillenbrand also included in the mix.

Corner infield was a target for the Angels this offseason with third baseman Aramis Ramirez being the prime candidate. Ramirez opted to stay in Chicago, though, and the Angels landed Gary Matthews Jr. to help the offense. Defensively talented as he is, Matthews plays center, and after potential deals for Todd Helton and Adam LaRoche fell through, the Angels regrouped to take stock of their own roster.

That assessment changed quickly when Juan Rivera broke his left leg while playing winter ball in Venezuela. Considered before Rivera's injury, Hillenbrand was handed a one-year, $6.5 million contract that includes an option for 2008.

While Hillenbrand has more experience than his competition on the Angels, he'll primarily handle Rivera's designated-hitter duties while occasionally playing first and third, especially on days that outfielders Garret Anderson and Vladimir Guerrero need a break from the field.





Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim


&bull; Catchers: Halos solid behind plate
&bull; Corner IF: Fierce competition on tap
&bull; Middle IF: Kendrick joins Cabrera
&bull; Outfielders: Matthews in the middle
&bull; Starters: Solid five, plus Colon
&bull; Bullpen: Could be even stronger
&bull; DH/Bench: Hillenbrand provides options





"I played a lot of first base last year, and I've played third," Hillenbrand said. "As long as I'm in the lineup and able to swing the bat, it doesn't matter where I am."

Despite missing most of 2006 due to illness, Kotchman has the inside shot at first base. The best fielding option the Angels have at the position, Kotchman has also demonstrated the ability to hit Major League pitching. In 2005, Kotchman hit .302 with seven homers in 40 games after an Aug. 4 recall, and he was their most productive hitter last spring.

The unknown factor is his health and stamina but Kotchman has been playing this winter in Puerto Rico and hopes to be 100 percent next month.

Kendry Morales started the most games at first base for the Angels last season. His 49 starts edged Robb Quinlan by four and Howie Kendrick by seven. Morales started out hot a year ago, with three hits in his Major League debut and a .409 batting average in his first five games with the big club, but he hit just .211 in 52 games after that.

A Minor League season at Triple-A Salt Lake that produced a .320 average with 12 homers and a solid winter playing in the Dominican Republic, though, will have Morales in the running at first base this spring.

Kendrick is moving over to second base for the departed Adam Kennedy, while Quinlan will see action at first but mostly in a reserve capacity.

Third base has been nearly as fluid since the departure of Glaus.

McPherson started the most games there in 2005 but maxed out at 55 due to hip and back problems. The position gained a bit more stability last season once Maicer Izturis became starter (78). More of a middle infielder, Izturis proved capable at third base and equally so at the top of the lineup, a role he filled at the end of the season.

Heading the list of third-base candidates will be Chone Figgins, who was seemingly expendable with the addition of Matthews but has seen his value restored with the injury to Rivera.

Scioscia likes the speed that Figgins can bring to the lineup (probably batting ninth) and trusts Figgins will make the plays at third base. Figgins is no stranger to the position, either. He was second to McPherson with 48 starts at third in 2005 and second to Izturis with 32 starts last season.

But Izturis won't be going far. A key reserve infielder, Izturis will be a candidate to play third on days that Figgins moves to the outfield to spell Anderson or Guerrero. He can also back up Kendrick at second base.

The wild card to the competition at third base will be McPherson. The 26-year-old has a power stroke to all fields but injuries have negatively impacted his last two big-league seasons.

McPherson, who could also be an option at first base, hit .250 with 17 homers (most at Salt Lake) and is rehabbing his lower back this winter. The Angels could sorely use his power, but McPherson will need consistent work so a strong spring will be critical.

Competition will be wide open at the corners this spring, which should bode well for anyone that can swing the bat.






