
ANAHEIM -- One year ago today, Joe Saunders wasn't a happy camper.

In November, the Angels had traded for Jon Garland, giving manager Mike Scioscia a surplus of starters. For Saunders, who'd been an emergency starter for two years while riding the shuttle from Triple-A Salt Lake to Anaheim, this meant getting ready for a pitched battle in camp with teammate Ervin Santana for the fifth spot in the rotation.

What a difference a year -- and an opportunity -- can make.

There will be a confident spring to Saunders' step when Angels pitchers and catchers begin to gather in Tempe, Ariz., on Feb. 13. The lefty will move at his own pace, preparing in his fashion for the long season ahead.

All-Stars earn certain allowances.

Injuries last spring to co-aces John Lackey (triceps) and Kelvim Escobar (shoulder) opened doors for both Saunders and Santana, and they barged through with brilliant seasons in helping drive the Angels to a runaway American League West title.

Turning question marks into exclamation points, both men graced the AL All-Star team and led the club with wins, Saunders going 17-7, Santana 16-7.

"We were confident both those guys had the right stuff to be big-time pitchers," Scioscia said. "Joe and Ervin really came through for us when we needed them."

When the World Baseball Classic provisional rosters recently were released, Saunders found he'd claimed a spot after Lackey was withdrawn from Team USA by the Angels' brass, citing its right to protect a player coming off an injury.

While acknowledging the distinction for the honor it was, Saunders regretfully declined the invitation. It had arrived too late for him to prepare properly to compete at that level in March.

At 27, Saunders grasps fully where he needs to be in April and how to get there. He found his personal road map last spring, peaking perfectly for his season debut in Minnesota.

His superlative effort in beating the Twins on April 2 -- eight shutout innings, four hits, one walk, four strikeouts -- served as a springboard, launching a 6-0 start.






With luck, and a few more runs of support, Saunders could have been 10-0 after dispatching the White Sox, 3-1, on May 23. He had a no-decision against the Indians while yielding one earned run in eight innings, and in his first loss, to the Rays in Florida on May 10, he surrendered just one earned run in six innings.

A model of consistent excellence, Saunders delivered 22 quality starts (six or more innings, three or fewer earned runs) in 31 trips to the post.

He missed a start on the Sunday before the All-Star break when his wife, Shanel, delivered their first child, Matea. It was, the proud dad recalls, a "life-changing experience."

Riding an emotional high, Saunders delivered in his own way in the All-Star Game, working a scoreless inning at Yankee Stadium in the AL's 4-3 victory.

"This has all been a dream," he said in the afterglow.

He was referring to the birth of Matea rolling into the Midsummer Classic, but he could have been summing up a remarkable season that ended in the AL Division Series against the Red Sox.

"I learned a lot about myself -- mainly, how to trust my stuff," Saunders said.

There was one bump in the road in September, in the form of a kidney stone that Saunders passed in a Seattle hotel room. After losing eight pounds and missing a start, he regained his strength and form with a strong effort in his final regular-season outing.

Saunders' magic finally expired in Game 3 of the ALDS at Fenway Park when a seemingly harmless pop fly by Jacoby Ellsbury fell for a three-run single. Saunders was charged with four earned runs in 4 2/3 innings, but the Angels rallied to claim their lone victory of the postseason in 12 innings.

Knowing how far he'd come, Saunders was philosophical as he packed for the final time that night in Boston, heading home to Chandler, Ariz.

"It's been such a great season," he said, "you hate to see it end."

He was reminded of something he'd said in February when it appeared he might be the odd man out of the rotation yet again after going 15-8 in 33 total starts across three seasons.

"I'm just hoping for a full season here," he said, "so I can show what I can do. I think I can win 15 games, given the opportunity."

No ordinary Joe, Saunders turned out to be even better than he'd envisioned.






