
ANAHEIM -- His contributions of relief typically come through swift flicks of his arm -- a mid-90s fastball or a slider -- but on Tuesday afternoon, for an hour before the Angels took the field against visiting Oakland, reliever Chris Bootcheck traded the bullpen for the playpen at UCI Children's Hospital in Orange.

Joined by wife Jina and teammate Robb Quinlan, Bootcheck visited a group of sick children at the hospital, this time offering relief through warm hellos and friendly conversation.

The visit was the first of its kind for Bootcheck since signing with the organization in 2001. In his time with the Angels, Bootcheck has lived with one foot firmly planted in the Minor League system and the other inching him ever closer to a seat at the Major League table. He seems to have finally secured a roster spot this season.

"I wasn't really here last year," Bootcheck said. "I was in a position kind of like [regular Salt Lake callup] Joe [Saunders].

"It's something I definitely want to continue to do. It's important to me, being able to get involved in the community."

The focus of his involvement on this day was "doing whatever you can do to try and brighten their day," while making stops at the hospital play room and individual visits to patients' rooms. Bootcheck was overwhelmed by the faces of small children -- many too shy or physically unable to attempt a chat -- lighting up as he made his rounds.

At Compton's Urban Youth Academy earlier this summer, Bootcheck joined Reggie Willits, bullpen catcher Steve Soliz and manager Mike Scioscia to take part in a youth clinic to teach fundamental baseball skills. Bootcheck assisted former Angels hurler Dave Frost during pitching instruction, an experience he said didn't compare to his time spent at UCI.

"I didn't really spend a whole lot of time with [the kids]," Bootcheck said. "I'd give a [pitching] suggestion, and they would respond instantly, so it wasn't the same. The one similarity is that there are kids that do need help."

With his pregnant wife expected to give birth on Oct. 16, Bootcheck's relief duties will soon extend to the rearing of the couple's first child. At the mere mention of the unborn child, the soft-spoken Bootcheck sported a similar glow to the ones he set on the faces of his young, news fans.

With baby Bootcheck scheduled to arrive on the eve of the Fall Classic, parents Chris and Jina might have to make extra room for the addition of a World Series ring.






