
ANAHEIM -- John Lackey was working quickly on Friday, but the news was official before his job was done in a 2-0 victory over the A's.

The American League Division Series are now set, with the Angels to play at the Red Sox and the Yankees at Indians. Since the Yankees cannot play the East champion Red Sox in the first round, it came down to the Indians and Angels to see who would play the Wild Card Yankees. With the Indians up two games, and holding the tiebreaker on the Angels with two to play, the Indians clinched the berth vs. New York.

What remains to be determined is which AL team will finish with the best overall record and the right to select the series of its choice -- the eight-day series starting Wednesday or the seven-day series starting Thursday. That also is down to the Indians and Red Sox due to their tiebreaker wins over the Angels. Boston holds the tiebreaker vs. the Indians, so if those two finish tied, the Red Sox win the honor.

Either way, Boston is the Angels' destination for the start of the ALDS, and Josh Beckett will be waiting there for Lackey in a Game 1 Fenway Park showdown.

"It'll be fun," Lackey said. "I'll be there. I'll show up."

After getting the news, the Angels put away the A's at McAfee Coliseum on the strength of Lackey's arm, Vladimir Guerrero's bat and Chone Figgins' legs -- a familiar Angels trifecta.

Lackey shrugged when he was asked if he had a preference for a Wednesday or Thursday series start, hinging on the choice of the team -- Red Sox or Indians -- finishing with the best record.

"One day's not a big deal," he said. "It's a playoff game. If you're not ready, you don't belong here."

Moving to 19-9, Lackey seized the AL ERA lead from Cleveland's Fausto Carmona with seven scoreless innings, lowering his ERA to 3.01. Carmona had been in charge at 3.06 coming into the game.

Lackey was typically unaffected by the prospect of claiming what would be his first ERA crown -- and the first by an Angels pitcher since Frank Tanana's 2.54 was the AL's best in 1977.

"I haven't done math since high school," the pride of Abilene, Texas, said. "It'd be cool, nice, whatever. I had no idea what it would take. I really didn't expect to go seven innings."

The A's cooperated by being more aggressive than is their disciplined, selective, Moneyball-driven style.

"I think I've proven over the years to be a strike-thrower out there," said Lackey, who needed only 74 pitches, 47 in the strike zone, to make it through seven innings. "They might have changed their approach. I do have a few pitches I can finish with."

After Lackey departed, Justin Speier pitched a scoreless eighth, and the finish was not without some drama.

Francisco Rodriguez walked a pair of hitters in the ninth before getting Mike Piazza to tap one back to the mound, K-Rod carrying the ball to first to jump on the bag for the emphatic final out. The save was his 39th.

Guerrero crushed his 27th homer of the season in the fourth inning against Dan Haren, who fell to 15-9 with the loss.

It was a towering drive to left-center, the seventh time this season Guerrero has gone deep against the A's. He's hitting .420 against them with 15 RBIs in 50 at-bats. He has 35 homers in his past 38 games.

The Angels had taken the lead in the first when Figgins led off with a walk, stole second, moved to third on catcher Kurt Suzuki's throwing error and scored on Guerrero's sacrifice fly to shallow center.

"It was good to manufacture a run," said Figgins, whose average has fallen to .334 with an 0-for-17 stretch that he doesn't feel is representative of the way he's been swinging the bat.

"I feel fine," the catalyst said. "I'm hitting some balls good. I'm just not finding a hole."

The Angels managed five hits, two apiece by Guerrero and Juan Rivera and one by Howie Kendrick.

Guerrero was hit by a pitch from Andrew Brown in his final at-bat in the eighth after Lackey had brushed back Jack Cust with an inside fastball in the bottom of the seventh.

It was the second game in a row Guerrero has been hit by a pitch, the eighth time this season. One of those, by Beckett in April at Fenway off his hand, cost Vlad two games.

Lackey gave up singles to Mark Ellis with two outs in the second and Jack Hannahan leading off the third. The big right-hander then retired the last 15 hitters he faced.

"Every time he takes the ball, he has high expectations," Scioscia said of Lackey. "He's going to go out and pitch his game. When he's on, he's going to give us a chance to win.

"It's good to see Lack get back out there and have the command he had. We played solid defense. On offense, we manufactured a run and Vlad got a home run. Some guys are searching, but we'll be all right."

To pass Lackey and reclaim the ERA lead, Carmona, who is not scheduled to start again during the regular season, would have to pitch at least 3 1/3 scoreless innings.






