
Tim Salmon is enjoying his freedom these days.

He's free to get out of bed, walk around his house, and even get out into the Arizona sunshine and hike in the hills.

It doesn't sound like much, but for a guy who's seen more time lately on crutches and in slings than on a baseball field, it's a lot.

"I just got out of my sling about two weeks ago," says Salmon, who underwent surgery in November to repair multiple tears in his right rotator cuff, only weeks after he had major knee surgery that left him on crutches.

"I'm just now starting range of motion and light resistance stuff," Salmon says. "I finally feel like I'm starting to get back into resuming a normal exercise life. I finally feel like a whole person again."

Salmon, who will turn 37 in August, has been an Angel since he broke into the big leagues in 1992. Now, one Rookie of the Year award, 289 home runs, 989 RBIs, and one World Series ring later, he finds himself at a career crossroads.

Salmon, the former right-field staple who had been relegated to the designated hitter slot for most of the last two seasons, is signed through 2005 but will probably miss the entire year because of his injuries.

If he does return, it might not be as an Angel, because he'll be a free agent. And with the way the Angels let popular free agents Troy Glaus, Troy Percival and David Eckstein walk this winter, Salmon said he's aware of the reality of the situation.

"It's going to be tough," Salmon says. "Right now, I have to see if I can come back healthy. Obviously, when I'm healthy, I can still have fun and be productive."

Salmon is scheduled to make $10 million in 2005, but he said he knows he won't be able to come close to that if he's ready to play in 2006.







   Tim Salmon  /    RF







Born: 08/24/68
Height: 6'3"
Weight: 235 lbs
Bats: R / Throws: R


More info:
Player page
Stats | Splits
Gallery 
Team Site | Shop




-->





"I'm going to be very affordable for anybody," he says with a laugh. "I'll probably be back on the bargain table and people will be saying, 'Maybe there's still some magic there. Let's see if there's anything left.' "

Salmon says that's what's powered him through the difficult times, which included having to watch the 2004 Angels go to the playoffs without him and wondering now how many months of rehab lie ahead.

"I'm approaching it like I still have a couple of years left," Salmon says. "I mean, what am I rehabbing for? I wouldn't put the effort in if I didn't believe I could play. I'm going to take that approach. The question nobody can answer is when will that be? September or next April? I don't know."

Salmon says he hasn't given much thought to whether he's finished with the Angels. He says he can't really imagine that right now.

"I've thought that I could have had my last at-bat of my career, but I guess I haven't thought about it being my last as an Angel," Salmon says.

"I mean, I see what the Angels have done this winter, and I realize it's a business, but if I could come back and be healthy, I could be in a situation where I could do some DH'ing. That DH spot's going to be a valuable spot for Vladdy [Guerrero] as he gets older. If I'm healthy I can do that and I can play some outfield. I've thought about that."

"As much as I'd like to finish there, they may not have the position for me available. I think it would be a shame if I could play and I had to go somewhere else. That would be sad. At the same time, it'd be nobody's fault."

For now, Salmon says he's thinking solely about getting back to full health and swinging a bat as soon as possible.

He says he'll be present -- although not playing -- atthe seventh annual Tim Salmon Golf Classic, which benefits Family Solutions and Laurel House and is scheduled for Feb. 7 at the Coto De Caza Golf and Raquet Club near Anaheim.

He's also planning on being around Spring Training, which is near his Scottsdale home and very close to his rehab work in Tempe. He also says he'll pop into Angel Stadium on Opening Day and every once in a while during the season.

"I'll come around, but I don't want to be a distraction from what's going on by being around too much," Salmon says.

"I've seen that. Those guys are getting ready to work and I know what it's like to be on the other side of that. But I'll be watching games and supporting them. But it's going to be hard to be around when you see guys preparing for a season and you're not even in the picture.

"I'll pick my spots. I'm still part of the team."








