
TEMPE, Ariz. -- It was just one at-bat, but millions of eyes were focused on Kendry Morales -- and he made a distinct impression on the man who counts most at this point in his life.















Behind in the count as a pinch-hitter, Morales lashed a delivery by Red Sox right-hander Justin Masterson off Fenway Park's Green Monster in left-center leading off the ninth inning of Game 4 of the American League Division Series.



Morales was replaced in the 2-2 game by pinch-runner Reggie Willits, who was tagged out at third base on a suicide squeeze that snuffed the Angels' final offensive threat of the 2008 season. The Red Sox prevailed with a run in the bottom of the ninth.



The unhappy ending notwithstanding, Angels manager Mike Scioscia saw some things that spoke volumes about Morales, his new first baseman with Mark Teixeira wearing Yankees pinstripes.



"That one at-bat is an indication of his talent, first of all," Scioscia was saying on a crisp Wednesday morning at Tempe Diablo Stadium. "Adjustments were made with two strikes to cut down his swing. He went up the middle, to left-center.



"A lot of his growth as a hitter is understanding the need, and his ability, to use the whole field. We've seen that. We want Kendry to get comfortable at the level he can play. He's going to fit in very well."



The Angels have other options at first base -- veteran Robb Quinlan, prospects Matt Brown and Freddy Sandoval, perhaps outfielder Juan Rivera -- but it's clearly Morales' job to claim.



At 25, four professional seasons in the U.S. under his belt, Morales is taking nothing for granted.



"No, I don't feel like it's mine," Morales said through broadcaster Jose Mota's translation. "I'm one of the candidates. There are other people who can play first base. I don't want to think it's my position."



Morales defected to the U.S. from his native Cuba in June 2004 and signed six months later with the Angels after establishing residency in the Dominican Republic.



A tremendous hitting display in the Dominican Winter League certainly was timely for Morales, given how negotiations with Teixeira turned out. But Morales insisted he was more focused on making the Angels' roster this season than filling the sizable shoes not only of Teixeira but of Casey Kotchman as well.



"I wasn't waiting for anybody to call and tell me I'm going to step in [at first]," Morales said. "I was hoping that with or without the signing of Teixeira that I was going to win a job in the big leagues."



He's aware of the attention he'll attract this spring, but Morales grew up with that as a teen playing right field and hitting cleanup for Cuba's international powerhouse. Pleasing the boss then meant satisfying the man who ran the country, Fidel Castro.



"I don't feel pressure," Morales said. "I can go back to the times when Kotchman was hurt and I had to step in. Those times really served me well now. The only thing I have to worry about is doing my job."



Scioscia isn't filling Morales' head with goals or projections.



"Every youngster coming up has to get into a comfortable level in time," Scioscia said. "But you still have to be contributing to a team. You want guys to play with a relaxed sense of urgency.



"Rather than worrying about what an 0-for-8 or 0-for-12 is going to do to him, we want him to get into his game and play. There has to be an element of patience. But there's the big picture, and we need production."



Signed on Dec. 1, 2004, as a free agent, Morales has hammered the ball at every Minor League stop, hitting .329 in 304 games with 54 homers and 224 RBIs.



With periodical trials in Anaheim, he has struggled to find a groove, hitting .249 with 12 homers and 45 RBIs in 377 at-bats. But he did demonstrate his talent in 2007 during one fairly extended opportunity, finishing the season at .294 with a .479 slugging percentage.



"He has the potential to open some eyes with 600 at-bats," Scioscia said. "Kendry is a guy who we hope hits the ground running and is a significant contributor on the offensive side."



Morales has made his biggest strides with the glove at first base, Scioscia said. He might not make anyone forget Kotchman or Teixeira right away, but he's no Dick Stuart -- Dr. Strangeglove -- at the bag.



"This guy's improved tenfold from when we signed him," Scioscia said. "He was very raw. He's improved to where he's a plus defender and a better baserunner.



"It took awhile defensively. One thing about Kendry: once he was challenged about what he had to do to get to the Major Leagues, he's been driven to play at the level he can. The guy's got range, good hands, a plus arm. He's going to be a good defender.



"The bottom line is contributing to a team that's championship-caliber."



He isn't staking any claims at first base, but Morales clearly relishes the challenge of proving he belongs.






