
ATLANTA -- Heading into the finale with the Atlanta Braves at Turner Field, all the Angels had to do to win the series was beat Tim Hudson.

"We haven't touched him," said Darin Erstad of Hudson, who carried a career 13-6 mark against the Angels into the game. "His numbers don't lie against us. He's pretty much dominated us ever since we faced him."

But not on Wednesday night.

Rookie Dallas McPherson had three hits, including a two-run tie-breaking triple in the seventh inning, and Chone Figgins also added three hits and two RBIs as the Angels defeated the Braves, 8-4, at Turner Field to take the rubber game of the three-game set.

"He's going to be a great player," said Erstad of the 24-year-old McPherson, who also delivered a key RBI in the eighth inning of the series opener. "He's young. He's going to have growing pains and he's going to have times that things don't go exactly the way he wants them, but he has exceptional talent and he's going to be a great player."

The win gave the Angels their first series win on their four-city, 12-game road trip and, combined with Texas' 2-0 loss in Philadelphia, boosted them back into undisputed possession of first place in the American League West.

But the victory may prove costly, as outfielder Jeff DaVanon left the game with a fractured nose after a ball ricocheted off the wall and hit him in the face in the fourth inning, and pitcher Kelvim Escobar had to leave after throwing a pitch in the fifth with what was diagnosed as right elbow discomfort.

Both will see specialists during the team's off-day Thursday, with Escobar undergoing an MRI by Dr. Andy Rikito.

"I'm going to have an MRI tomorrow, and I guess we're going to go from there," said Escobar, who was making only his third start since coming off the disabled list on May 28 after suffering from bone spurs. "It feels the same; the same pain that I had three weeks ago. I'm frustrated. I've never been through this before."

Brendan Donnelly (4-1) got the win, his second of the series, throwing two scoreless innings.

"We hit a bump in the road about a week or so ago," said Donnelly. "We -- meaning me and [Scot] Shields, mainly -- took a look at ourselves, put a little extra work in in Boston before we left town and tried to get our mechanics back right, and obviously we did that. We feel good about things and we're back on track."

The Braves will attest to that.







   Brendan Donnelly  /    P







Born: 07/04/71
Height: 6'3"
Weight: 240 lbs
Bats: R / Throws: R


More info:
Player page
Stats | Splits
Gallery 
Team Site | Shop




-->






Relievers Jake Woods, Donnelly, Shields and Francisco Rodriguez combined to hold the Braves hitless over the final 4 2/3 innings Wednesday, as Andruw Jones was the only Brave to reach, drawing a ninth-inning walk.

"They got some big outs," said Scioscia. "Jake Woods came in and got two lefties out who were swinging the bat well. Those were two big outs to keep the game 4-3. Then, as we move on, Brendan gave us two big innings, and Shields and Frank, those guys have been there all year for us and have done a terrific job. They did a terrific job tonight."

He didn't have to limit it to tonight. The bullpen dominated the three-game set, not surrendering a run and allowing Atlanta batters one hit and two walks (all by Rodriguez) in 8 2/3 innings in the series.

Atlanta reliever John Foster (1-1) took the loss, allowing the go-ahead runs in the seventh -- his first runs allowed this year after 18 appearances.

Garret Anderson added two hits and drove in a run for the Angels, who had their second 10-hit game of the series and their 25th of the season. They are now 20-5 in double-digit-hit games. The offensive outburst surprised Anderson.

"Anytime you face the Braves, you're going to see good pitching, so from that standpoint you don't think a lot of runs are going to be scored," said Anderson, who drove in four runs in the series. "If we can stay healthy and stay on the field, we'll be all right."

Keeping Escobar on the field could be a problem.







   Kelvim Escobar  /    P







Born: 04/11/76
Height: 6'1"
Weight: 210 lbs
Bats: R / Throws: R


More info:
Player page
Stats | Splits
Gallery 
Team Site | Shop




-->






Escobar, who had allowed only one run and seven hits over his previous two starts since coming off the DL, was undone by a 40-pitch fourth inning, during which he uncorked two wild pitches, one allowing a run to score, and hit a batter. He also allowed an RBI double to Adam LaRoche and a two-RBI double to Ryan Langerhans. Escobar left the game in the fifth after throwing his 81st pitch of the night.

"It hurt me a little bit in the third inning, and it got worse in the fourth inning," Escobar said of his elbow. "I got in trouble I think throwing so many pitches. I got out of that inning, but I don't think I could have gone out the next inning."

The Angels had brought a 3-0 lead into the inning, scoring three times in the second inning off Hudson. Adam Kennedy had an RBI single and Figgins added a two-run knock. Figgins extended his current hitting streak to seven games and raised his career average to .429 (6-for-14) against Hudson.

Hudson left after facing two batters in the fifth inning. He allowed four runs and six hits, in his second-shortest outing of the season.

The Angels tied the game at 4-4, on a LaRoche error on Anderson's grounder, allowing Steve Finley to score from second.

Anderson added an eighth-inning RBI single off Dan Kolb.

The eighth inning turned out to be a big inning all series long for the Angels, who outscored the Braves 5-0 in that crucial frame. They outscored Atlanta 8-1 from the seventh inning on, twice forging game-winning rallies late.

"That's what our team does, we never quit," said Erstad, who answered the hearty chorus of boos from the Atlanta crowd by getting a hit in each game to extend his hitting streak to 10 games. "We keep playing and keep playing. This is the kind of win we like to have."

Especially when it wins a series.






