
ANAHEIM -- Moral victories aren't worth the paper they're printed on, but the Angels gained value during a recent swing through Oakland that was uplifting if nothing else.

Two victories there helped quicken the pulse of the A's, but likely accomplished little else for a ballclub that remains in control of its own destiny despite losing in Seattle on Monday night.

Barring an utter collapse by the A's, the Angels will relinquish their American League West crown, but the club has made its statement by pulling the plug on Oakland's celebratory weekend and making it clear its not offering any help.

The Angels ran roughshod over the Rangers on Monday night to post an 8-3 victory and keep their postseason lamp a flicker for one more day as they opened their final homestand of the regular season and pulled within five games of the division lead with six games to play.

Vladimir Guerrero homered twice, Chone Figgins added a solo shot and Juan Rivera went 4-for-4 with a pair of RBIs as Joe Saunders tossed seven strong innings and Scot Shields earned his second save.

It was another solid outing for the Saunders, as the rookie left-hander won his second straight game. The Angels won for the fifth time in their last six games, and they've won 14 of their last 20 and improved their record to a season-high 14 games over .500.

The club also increased its record since July 1 to 50-27, which is tops in all of baseball, but however lofty those numbers appear, it can't erase an elimination number of two -- meaning the A's can clinch the division with a victory Tuesday and an Angels loss.

However, if the Angels win Tuesday and the A's lose, it will be the Halos that will be in control of their own destiny with a four-game date against Oakland looming at week's end.

"There has been a sense of frustration that has been a part of this club here this season, and that is normal," manager Mike Scioscia said of being this far back while his club is playing its best baseball. "Early on in the season we were frustrated because we were looking at a lot of things that went wrong. We are not in the position that we want to be at this point, and we hope we get a chance to win this weekend, but we need some help."

Monday's tone was established early, as Saunders set the Rangers down in order in the top of the first and Guerrero followed Orlando Cabrera's one-out single with a no-doubt blast in the bottom half.

Appearing as the designated hitter for the third straight game, Guerrero unloaded on a 1-0 pitch from loser Edinson Volquez (1-6), launching a towering drive that wrapped around the left-field foul pole for his 32nd home run this season. He later added a solo homer in the eighth for the 29th multihomer game of his career.

"We are having a lot of fun right now, and the team is responding with our backs against the wall," Guerrero said through an interpreter. "But there is still no talk about what Oakland is doing at all; I'm not lying about this. We know what we have to do, and we're trying to go out there and win."

It was a steady barrage of base hits, 18 in all, including 15 singles, as the Angels never were retired in order and scored in all but two innings.

Rivera, who has shaken off his September slump, tied a career high with four hits -- he enjoyed similar results a year ago in Baltimore -- and was hit by a pitch in the first inning, allowing him to reach base five times Monday night and extend his streak of reaching safely to his last seven plate appearances.

Cabrera also chipped in by going 3-for-5 and scoring three runs, increasing his season total to a club-high 93.

Posting another in a string of successes by the Angels starting staff was Saunders, who made his 12th start for the big club after making 21 starts at Triple-A Salt Lake. It was also the fifth start he's made on an additional day's rest, and that seems to suit him.

In those starts, he's 4-0 with a 1.30 ERA, while in the other five starts (which do not include his first two, as both followed outings in Salt Lake), Saunders is 2-3 with a 10.13 ERA. The rookie is establishing career highs in innings each time he takes the mound, but the Angels aren't ready to call it a trend as much as a curiosity.

"I don't know if there is enough of a sample size," Scioscia said. "It is his first go-round in the Major Leagues, but I know that on extra rest, he does seem to do well."

Saunders (7-3) allowed two runs on six hits without issuing a walk Monday, and he has surrendered just three runs in his last two starts. If the rotation holds, he will make his last start of the season Saturday against the A's.

"Every day is the biggest game of the year, so I treat it like a playoff game," Saunders said. "There is always added pressure, especially when your back is against the wall and you need to win every one -- go out there and finish out strong and hopefully have a chance to play in the postseason."






