
ANAHEIM -- Dustin Moseley's third start of the season will come on Sunday against the Tigers at Angel Stadium. That gives both Kelvim Escobar and John Lackey an extra day of rest before the Angels open a big three-game set with the Mariners in Seattle on Monday.

Escobar will start the opener of that series bringing together the American League West Division's top two clubs, with Lackey working the second game and Jered Weaver the finale. Escobar and Lackey then will be set for the final two games of a four-game series in Oakland with the A's.

Moseley, whose next turn would come up Friday in Oakland,  began the season in the rotation as the club waited for Weaver and Bartolo Colon to build arm strength in recovering from arm issues.

A 25-year-old Texan acquired in the winter of 2004 from Cincinnati for pitcher Ramon Ortiz, Moseley flourished in his two starts, an April 6 home win against Oakland and a no-decision six days later in Milwaukee against Cleveland. His ERA in the two outings was 1.50.

He worked six innings, giving up five hits and one earned run in the victory over the A's and held the Indians to a run on five hits in five innings. He threw 95 and 89 pitches, respectively, in the two outings.

A reliever since deferring to Colon in the rotation, Moseley has a 4-1 record and a 4.06 ERA in 33 games covering 51 innings. He has held hitters to a .261 average while striking out 23 and walking 15.

"Change speeds, keep [hitters] off balance, keep the ball down -- if I can do that, I'll be OK," Moseley said of his approach, adding that he'll need to bring all three of his pitches -- fastball, curve and changeup -- into the game to make his plan work against the Tigers' formidable lineup.
Angels manager Mike Scioscia said he feels Moseley "has the versatility to step out of the 'pen and start again. We'll see what we get him to [in his pitch count]. He can have enough pitches to go deep enough into the game for our needs. His stuff is still good, crisp. I look for him to give us a good start."

Seeing is believing: With two days to prepare, Moseley has time to reconnect mentally with those two quality outings in April, bring back visions of success in a process of visualization that has helped him make this a breakthrough season.

He last pitched on Monday against the A's, appearing in his third consecutive game. He felt some strain in his arm after delivering 48 pitches in long relief after Colon was forced out with an elbow ailment one inning into his start. Giving up five earned runs in 2 2/3 innings against the A's, Moseley watched his ERA jump from 3.35 to 4.06.

Those 48 pitches, on the heels of 25 total deliveries in back-to-back efforts in Minnesota, forced him to back off a little the past few days. But Moseley feels he's regained arm strength and stamina necessary for his start.

"It's what I've been doing my whole career," he said of the starting assignment. "I know I can do both now. I'll just go back to my routine -- what I did as a starter, including visualization stuff."

Visualization, he said, is "seeing yourself throw pitches in locations, whatever you want it to be. It's no detailed thing. With a starter's routine, it's a little bit easier to go into depth with it."

Part of the job: As trade rumors continue to swirl around the Angels, most notably involving Texas first baseman Mark Teixeira, Scioscia said players learn over time that it comes with the turf.

"I think veteran players know the routine," Scioscia said. "You're going to find your name come up in an article here and there. Most veteran players probably handle it better than younger guys who see their name in articles. This game keeps you focused."

On the mend: Erick Aybar (right wrist surgery) continues to make progress, Scioscia said. Howie Kendrick (fractured left ring finger) will be re-evaluated next week.

Aybar, out since July 1, has missed 19 games. Kendrick twice has had his season interrupted by broken fingers on his left hand, missing a total of 44 games.

Reliever Chris Resop (right triceps tendinitis) has been out since July 13 and Colon (right elbow irritation) since July 24. Third baseman Dallas McPherson (lower back surgery) is expected to miss the rest of the season, with outfielder Juan Rivera (broken lower left leg) hoping to rejoin the Angels for the final month or so of the season. Rivera is running 90-foot intervals, taking batting practice and throwing long toss.

On July 27 in Angels history: Garret Anderson, 22, made his Major League debut in 1994 at Anaheim Stadium against Oakland and was 2-for-4, getting both hits off Ron Darling. ... One year later, Jim Edmonds' three RBIs in a 9-3 win at Milwaukee gave him 34 RBIs for July, tying Don Baylor's club record for a month.

Stat of the day: The Angels have been in first place 92 consecutive days and 106 of 116 days this season.

Up next: In a duel of southpaws, Joe Saunders (4-0, 2.89 ERA) faces the Tigers' Andrew Miller (5-3, 3.78) on Saturday at 12:55 p.m. PT.






