
Balloting for the 2008 Ford C. Frick Award for broadcasting excellence is underway, with fans given the opportunity to vote for as many as three baseball broadcasters.

Among the candidates are three current Angels broadcasters: Steve Physioc, Jose Mota and Amaury Pi-Gonzalez.

Other candidates with ties to the Angels include Ron Fairly, Mario Impemba and Dave Niehaus. Retired broadcasters on the ballot include Ken Brett, Buddy Blattner, Dick Enberg, Paul Olden, Bob Starr, Ulpiano Cos Villa and Ken Wilson.

Fans can determine three of the 10 candidates on the final ballot by voting at baseballhall.org, beginning Thursday and throughout November. Active or retired broadcasters with a minimum of 10 years continuous broadcast service with a Major League club or a network or a combination of the two are eligible.
The Ford C. Frick Award is presented annually to a broadcaster for "major contributions to baseball." The award, named after the late broadcaster, National League President, Commissioner and Hall of Famer, has been presented annually since 1978. Frick was a driving force behind the creation of the Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, and he helped foster the relationship between radio and the game of baseball.
The Ford C. Frick Award is presented annually during the Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony. Each award recipient is presented with calligraphy of the award during the Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony and is recognized in the "Scribes & Mikemen" exhibit in the Library of the National Baseball Hall of Fame. Below is a complete list of the Ford C. Frick Award recipients.  The 2007 recipient was longtime Royals broadcaster Denny Matthews.

Fans may cast votes for as many as three broadcasters once daily, basing their decisions on four criteria: longevity; continuity with a club; honors, including awards and national assignments, such as the World Series and All Star-Games; and popularity. Ballots will be cast by voting members in January, with the final results announced in February.  

The final ballot of 10 candidates, to be announced in early December, will include the three fan selections and seven other candidates determined by a Hall of Fame staff research team. The Frick electorate includes all past winners and six historians appointed by the Hall of Fame.

Past Frick Award winners include 2007 honoree Denny Matthews, Gene Elston, Jerry Coleman, Marty Brennaman, Herb Carneal, Joe Garagiola, Ernie Harwell, Jaime Jarrin, Milo Hamilton, Harry Kalas, Felo Ramirez, Vin Scully, Lon Simmons, Bob Uecker and Bob Wolff.

Currently the Angels' TV play-by-play man, Physioc has been in the business for 25 years and has been with the Angels since 1996. He began his Major League play-by-play announcing career in 1983, broadcasting Cincinnati Bengals football and Cincinnati Reds baseball games until 1987.

Physioc then moved on to San Francisco, where he served as the Giants' announcer from 1987-88. From there, he worked for ESPN from 1989-95, announcing Major League Baseball, college basketball, baseball and Big Ten football.

In 1995, Physioc announced Padres games and Pac-10 football games for FOX Sports West. Other experience includes radio and television play-by-play analysis for the NBA's Golden State Warriors from 1989-91 and for the Vancouver Grizzlies during their inaugural season, 1995-96.

Mota has been a broadcaster for the last 11 years and has been in the Angels' Spanish language radio booth since 2002. Mota began work on the Game of the Week in 1997 and continued through 2001 while also doing play-by-play for DirecTV's intercontinental Major League broadcasts that provided weekly coverage to 26 Latin American countries.
In addition to FOX Game of the Week duties, Mota has been awarded extensive playoff duties and was front and center during the 2007 Major League All-Star Game in San Francisco. He also has worked NFL broadcasts for the network. Son of Manny Mota, an esteemed Major League outfielder, Jose Mota played for the Padres in 1991 and for the Royals in 1995.
Pi-Gonzalez joined Mota on the Angels' Spanish broadcast team in 2007 with illustrious credentials. He has been in the business for more than three decades, serving for the San Francisco Giants' flagship Spanish station for 13 years and also working Oakland A's games for 17 years. From 2003 through 2006, he had the rare distinction of broadcasting teams in both leagues, also calling Seattle Mariners home games. 
A native of Cuba, Pi-Gonzalez was inducted into the Cuban Sports Hall of Fame in 2004 in the Sports Broadcasting category. A versatile broadcaster with experience covering the World Series and postseason play, he has covered the NBA for seven years with the Golden State Warriors, along with the Super Bowl, boxing and soccer. 
Pi-Gonzalez attended the University of Miami after moving to Florida in 1961. A veteran of the United States Army, having served from 1966 to 1968, he began his broadcasting career in Miami. 
Niehaus broadcasted Angels games from 1969-76, but for the last 30 years, he's been the voice of the Seattle Mariners. Niehaus began his career working for the Armed Forces Radio and TV Network, calling the action of Dodgers games before moving to New York to handle Yankees baseball.

From 1969-76, Niehaus teamed with Dick Enberg and Don Drysdale to call the action for the California Angels. Elected Sportscaster of the Year for the state of Washington in 1995 and 1996, his expressions, "My, Oh My," and "It will fly away," have become familiar throughout the Northwest.
Enberg was behind the microphone for Angels games from 1968-78 and has been one of the most recognizable sportscasters for the past four decades. Enberg has won 13 Emmy Awards, nine Sportscaster of the Year Awards and is the only person to win a national Emmy as a sportscaster, writer and producer. Enberg currently works for CBS Sports.

Other former Angels broadcasters named as candidates for the Frick Award include Impemba, 1995-2001; Fairly, 1982-86; Blattner, 1962-68; Brett, 1988-96; Olden, 1991; Starr, 1980-89; Wilson, 1991-95; and Spanish language broadcaster Cos Villa, 1983-92.






