
 Angels 6, Royals 4
at Tempe, Ariz.
Sunday, March 1


Angels at the plate: Reggie Willits singled and walked twice in three at-bats, stealing a base. Mike Napoli banged a two-run single, and Terry Evans had two singles, driving in a run. Sean Rodriguez doubled and walked in three at-bats, Chris Pettit delivered an RBI single, and Freddy Sandoval doubled and drove in two runs.












Royals at the plate: David DeJesus singled twice and walked, scoring a run and driving in another. Willie Bloomquist singled home a run and scored, and John Buck had a double and walk, scoring a run.



Angels on the mound: Dustin Moseley, launching his bid for the fifth starter role, delivered two hitless innings and finished with a flourish, striking out the side: Mike Jacobs, Alex Gordon and Buck. His only blemish was a two-out walk in the first inning. Nick Adenhart, also launching his bid for the starter's job,  yielded one earned run in two innings on two  hits and a hit batsman, striking out one.


 Royals on the mound: Gil Meche had a rocky outing, surrendered three earned runs on four hits and a walk, striking out two in his lone inning of labor. Henry Barrera worked a scoreless inning with a walk and strikeout.



Cactus League records: Angels 4-1; Royals 2-2-1.


Up next: The Angels travel to Tucson, Ariz., to face the Rockies on Monday at 12:10 p.m. PT. John Lackey gets his first start of the spring for the Angels against southpaw Franklin Morales of the Rockies. Lackey said he'll be looking to put his fastball in good spots and just regain the feel of pitching again in a game. Expected to follow him to the mound are right-handers Fernando Rodriguez and Ryan Brasier, along with southpaw Alex  Torres.


Horacio Ramirez, the designated left-hander in the Royals' rotation, didn't make it out of the first inning in his first start of the spring. He gave up six runs, three earned, and he'd like to start making his selection look secure in Monday's 2:05 p.m. CT game against San Francisco in Surprise, Ariz. Kyle Davies, another starter who posted two scoreless innings in his first outing, will follow Ramirez along with Jamey Wright, Julio Pimentel and Heath Phillips. Matt Cain will start for the Giants.






