
The following is the sixth in a series of weekly stories on MLB.com examining each Major League club, position by position. Each Wednesday until Spring Training camps open, we'll preview a different position. Today: Bullpen.

ANAHEIM -- Throughout Mike Scioscia's eight-year run as manager of the Angels, the bullpen has been a consistent asset. No club puts more emphasis on high-caliber relief than the organization that made the 2007 American League West title its third in four seasons.

As deep and talented as any relief corps in the game, the Angels slipped to eighth in team ERA (4.24) among AL bullpens in '07. They were third in lowest average yielded (.242), fifth in fewest walks allowed (179) and strikeouts (411).

With the same cast returning in 2008, Scioscia is optimistic that the returns will be better for several reasons.

"We have depth, a lot of quality pitchers in our 'pen," Scioscia said. "We're confident they'll do the job. Hopefully, we can keep them fresh all year."

Scioscia said a return to full-service form by Justin Speier, who missed nine weeks because of an intestinal infection, would be a big factor in saving wear on fellow setup man Scot Shields and All-Star closer Francisco Rodriguez.

Another plus should come in the tall form of Jon Garland, who made 21 trips through the seventh inning for the Chicago White Sox in 2007. That was two more than Angels leader John Lackey, the club's All-Star ace and league ERA champion.

Inconsistency at the back end of the rotation placed a burden on the entire bullpen in 2007, with Chris Bootcheck leading all rookie relievers in innings pitched with 77 1/3, tying him for sixth overall in the league. Shields, making 20 more appearances than Bootcheck, was eighth in the AL with 77 innings pitched.

A long shot to make the staff as a non-roster invitee in the spring, Bootcheck became a valuable middle reliever and hopes to continue to flourish in that role. When he's putting his mid-90s fastball where he wants it, he racks up strikeouts (56). He was especially productive at home, going 3-0 with a 3.86 ERA.

The 6-foot-5 right-hander was one of the unsung stars of the season, keeping the club in games along with fellow middle relievers Darren Oliver and Dustin Moseley.

After a shaky start -- his ERA was 7.98 entering June -- Oliver found his groove and was superb over the second half, going 3-1 with a 2.23 ERA in 36 1/3 innings.

Changing speeds effectively and pitching inside to keep hitters off the plate, Oliver had 51 strikeouts in 64 1/3 innings and was more effective against right-handed hitters (.209) than lefties (.289).

Pressed into early-season service as a starter with Bartolo Colon and Jered Weaver each missing two starts, Moseley settled into a middle relief role and was a consistent presence.

A finesse pitcher, the 26-year-old Moseley relies on command to get outs early in counts. He figures to have the same role in 2008, on call to start while working the middle innings.

Another possible addition to the middle relief corps could come from the odd-man out in the rotation. Ervin Santana and Joe Saunders are dueling for the fifth spot.

Power right-handers Jason Bulger and Rich Thompson will attempt to crack the unit with impressive springs after showing their stuff during late-season cameos.

One of the game's most respected setup artists, Shields made 71 relief appearances. Going back to 2004, his 361 2/3 innings are the most by any reliever in the Majors -- and his 368 strikeouts over that period are fourth highest.






Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim


&bull; Catchers: Napoli back from injury
&bull; Corner IF: Unconventional on corners
&bull; Middle IF: Young duo up the middle
&bull; Outfielders: A star-studded mix
&bull; Starters: Angels' staff even deeper
&bull; Bullpen: K-Rod anchors top 'pen
&bull; DH/Bench: Embarrassment of riches





Despite late-season struggles, Shields once again produced 31 holds, matching his league-leading total from 2006.

Actually, Shields had two seasons within a season: dominant (1.70 ERA) in the first half, inconsistent (7.36) after the All-Star break.

Both Shields and Scioscia maintained that his issues were with command, not overuse. Blessed with great stuff, he's hard to hit (.220 in '07). Scioscia and pitching coach Mike Butcher fully expect Shields to deliver handsomely in his familiar role in front of K-Rod.

Sidelined from April 30 to July 13 (64 games), Speier was effective when available in his first season in Anaheim, going 2-3 with a 2.88 ERA in 50 innings.

The popular 34-year-old right-hander stranded 30 of 36 baserunners, and the first batters he faced when entering a game hit just .167. Opponents batted only .202 overall against him.

Equipped with explosive stuff and exceptional control, Speier -- like Shields -- has the repertoire and temperament to close games.

With K-Rod around, that's rarely necessary. He leads the Majors in saves over the past three seasons with 132, one more than Trevor Hoffman.

He wasn't as consistent as in 2006, but Rodriguez reached 40 saves for the third consecutive year. He showed his mental toughness in the All-Star Game in San Francisco when he saved the AL's 5-4 win by retiring Aaron Rowand on a fly ball to leave the bases loaded.

Third all-time in strikeouts per nine innings (12.0), K-Rod fought his control at times. His 2.81 ERA, 34 walks, and .204 batting average allowed were the highest in his four seasons as a closer, and he struggled (3.45 ERA) after the All-Star break. But his big breaking ball remains a dynamic weapon, and his mid-90s fastball is a force.

The Angels offered K-Rod $10 million in arbitration, which would match the highest award ever presented in the process. When he countered with $12.5 million, a stalemate resulted.

For once, someone else -- an arbitrator -- might have to close the deal.






