
DETROIT -- There was no trace of concern in his eyes, his manner or his words. Garret Anderson has struggled before and found his form. The Angels' all-time career leader in a wide range of offensive categories sees no reason why he won't snap out of it and start slashing line drives again real soon.

"I don't get too cerebral about it," Anderson said, getting Friday night off at Comerica Park against left-hander Nate Robertson as the Angels opened a three-game series against the hot-hitting Tigers. "I know I can hit. I don't worry about it. I don't feel any different."

Juan Rivera took Anderson's place in the lineup, batting fifth behind Torii Hunter and serving as designated hitter, with Gary Matthews Jr. in left field.

Anderson has been quiet in the fourth and fifth spots in an offense that ranks third in the American League in runs scored and second in average and homers.

With 94 at-bats in 22 games, Anderson is batting .234 with two homers and 11 RBIs. His .372 slugging percentage is a far cry from his .471 career number coming into the season.

Manager Mike Scioscia didn't rule out the idea of moving Anderson down in the order if necessary, and that possibility didn't bother the 14-year veteran any more than his slow start.

"If I'm hurting the team in certain situations, yeah, put me in a different spot," Anderson said. "I'm up to the challenge."

At 35, having spent his entire career with the organization, Anderson insisted the possibility of free agency -- the Angels hold a $14 million option for 2009 they can buy out for $3 million -- is not weighing on his mind, that he simply doesn't think that way.

"I'm not the sentimental type," he said, grinning. "Physically, I'm fine. It's not like it's the last day of the season. There's no sense of urgency.

"I'm very confident in my ability to play baseball. I've got five months to fix it. There's no pressure. It's fun. I enjoy being out there."

Anderson was in a much different, less comfortable place a year ago after he tore his right hip flexor tendon running to first base in Chicago on April 27.

He went into the All-Star break with three homers and 15 RBIs, batting .285. In the second half, he produced 13 homers and 65 RBIs, batting .305.

"I don't have to deal with any bad outside influences now," Anderson said, agreeing that coming back from that injury was a much bigger challenge than the one he now faces. "I don't have to think about, `Am I going to play tonight? Is this thing going to pop again?' I'm just looking forward to the next day."

Scioscia appears as confident as Anderson that he'll find the switch and start turning on the juice, that the hits and RBIs will start coming in bunches.

"He's got the same demeanor, but he's been grinding a little bit," Scioscia said. "Sometimes it's good to take a step back. He needs to gather himself, find his rhythm and timing at the plate. He's jumping a little bit. He just hasn't found that swing.

"We have to get him swinging the bat the way he can. It's obvious he hasn't been. When he's going good, you're seeing the ball sprayed around to all fields -- to left-center, up the middle. He's staying on the ball longer and is not pull-conscious.

"We need him swinging the bat the way he did from June on last year. He knocked in more runs than anybody in baseball. He's gotten some big hits [this season]. Garret is a big part of what we'll do. That's really the big issue."






