
ANAHEIM -- He isn't the fastest player on the field, but Orlando Cabrera can steal bases with anyone.

The Angels shortstop has swiped 23 bases this year and has been caught just three times. His 88 percent success rate is the best on the team.

Cabrera studies pitchers on film during warmups and throughout games in order to meticulously pick apart their timing and moves toward home. And while on the basepaths, he never lets his opposition figure out his intentions.

"Pitchers can tell you want to steal by body movement and if you take as big a lead as you can," he said. "I take small leads and get them to think I'm not running, then I'm at the next base before they know it."

It was with the Expos that Cabrera perfected his method of thievery. In a game against the Mets, the shortstop was in awe as to how Roberto Alomar was able to swipe second base so easily. Cabrera spoke with the veteran at second later in the series and learned how to steal deceptively.

Cabrera said he is rarely given a steal sign from the dugout; instead, he chooses his own spots when he notices the defense has forgotten about him and consistently gets huge jumps as a result.

"He is a very intelligent baserunner and he's extremely high-percentage," manager Mike Scioscia said. "He is fearless on the basepaths and that's half the battle."

No more evident was Cabrera's knack for stealing than in a game against the Dodgers in July. He became the first Angels player to steal home since 1997 after noticing that that rookie Chad Billingsley was pausing before every pitch. He yelled a few words to Vladimir Guerrero in Spanish and took off on Billingsley's next offering and was at home before the pitcher even released the ball.

Cabrera said he's always trying to teach his philosophy to teammates and this year has helped third baseman Maicer Izturis with his technique.

Long-lasting lineup: Izturis was in the leadoff spot again on Friday and Chone Figgins was batting ninth, a trend that's not likely to end soon.

"It probably will take some guys sputtering or something happening that we might want to flip-flop it to see if we can get back in a groove," Scioscia said. "But right now, if this thing works, we certainly don't want to change the recipe now with where we are with [so few] games left."

The change, made before Wednesday's game to take pressure off Figgins and remove his low on-base percentage from the top of the order, worked just fine on Wednesday as both players responded to the switch. Figgins hit a go-ahead double and Izturis scored three times to help the Angels score eight runs, their highest offensive total in nearly two weeks.

Not in the cards: Winners of five straight, the Angels have begun to creep into the American League Wild Card picture.

As play began on Friday, the Halos were tied with the Red Sox 5 1/2 games back of the Twins for the league's final playoff spot. Though, with the White Sox also in the mix, it seems doubtful the Angels will be able to jump so many teams and qualify for the postseason the way they did during their championship run in 2002.

Plus, as far as Scioscia is concerned, the club's best chance for October baseball is within the AL West.

"Our focus isn't on anything but winning every night," he said. "We're going to have an opportunity, certainly, if we play well enough to get into the playoffs via our division."

Colon sighting: Bartolo Colon is taking a break from his rehab in Arizona to sign autographs for Angels fans. The 2005 AL Cy Young Award winner will be at Macy's in the Irvine Spectrum at noon on Saturday.

Quick hits: Juan Rivera was back in the lineup on Friday after missing two games with pain in his left hand. He hit fifth and played left field. ... With Triple-A Salt Lake one loss away from Pacific Coast League playoff elimination, the Angels will add several more players to their roster as early as Saturday. Scioscia wouldn't elaborate as to who would be recalled, but infielders Kendry Morales and Dallas McPherson, outfielder Tommy Murphy and reliever Greg Jones have all spent time with the Angels this year and are candidates to be brought up.

On the farm: Salt Lake lost to Tucson, 4-2, on Thursday in Game 2 of its five-game Pacific Conference Championship series. The Bees, the Pacific North Division champs, head to Salt Lake having to win all three games in order to take the series. Right-hander Dustin Moseley gave up four runs, two earned, on four hits in eight innings. The Bees couldn't support his outing at the plate, with only three hits -- two coming from second baseman Adam Pavkovich. The Bees lost, 4-3, in 11 innings on Wednesday night. ... Rookie level Orem concluded its regular season on Thursday with an 8-4 loss to Casper. Left fielder Chris Pettit drove in two runs. By winning the Southern Division, the Owlz will begin a three-game series in the Pioneer League playoffs on Friday against Idaho Falls.

Up next: Kelvim Escobar will start for the Angels on Saturday as the club continues its three-game set with the Blue Jays at 7:05 p.m. PT at Angel Stadium. Escobar will face left-hander Gustavo Chacin.






