
ANAHEIM -- It may have taken the Angels 11 innings to score five runs against Pittsburgh in Friday night's victory, but things happened much more quickly on Saturday.

The Halos batted around and put up a five-spot in the second inning off Pirates starter Ian Snell en route to a 10-1 victory.

Kelvim Escobar continued his dominance of late, pitching eight brilliant innings in front of a sellout crowd at Angel Stadium. The right-hander allowed only one run on five hits while striking out four in his ninth victory of the season.

Escobar retired the side in order in half of his eight innings, and he retired 10 straight hitters at one point. He has lost only once in his last seven starts, just three times all season, and was showered with a standing ovation as he left the game.

Escobar impressed not only the Angels fans, but he also earned the praises of his manager.

"Kelvim pitched a very effective eight innings tonight," said Mike Scioscia. "This is one of the best stretches he's been on in a long time. He is one of the top pitchers in our league, and is certainly worthy of All-Star consideration."

The decisive second inning began with four straight hits -- a single by Vladimir Guerrero, a double by Gary Matthews Jr., a two-run single by Howie Kendrick and a single by Kendry Morales -- and it ended with a deep fly out to left field by Guerrero.

The Angels offense pounded out 17 hits on the night, and they have 35 in the first two games of the series.

"That second inning for us was big," said Scioscia. "That's a heck of a pitcher [Snell], but for the last six-eight weeks, we've been one of the top offenses in the league. And we're doing it without home runs. When we get on base, our guys are making the most of it."

Reggie Willits had two more hits and an RBI, increasing his average to .352, good for third in the American League behind Magglio Ordonez and Ichiro Suzuki.

Escobar and the Halos escaped major damage in the eighth. After Escobar retired the first batter, the Pirates got three straight hits, scoring one run on a single by catcher Ronny Paulino. But after Jose Bautista walked to load the bases with only one out, Chris Duffy hit a liner right back to Escobar, who threw to first to double up Jack Wilson and escape the jam with a 6-1 lead.



Complete coverage &gt;  


"That play was big for us at the time," said Scioscia.  "Kelvim's pitch count was getting up, and I thought he was a little bit tired. If that ball gets through, you never know what happens."

But the inning ended, and the play seemed to give the Halos offense a second wind, as they came on to score four more runs in the bottom half of the inning.

Guerrero clobbered a Tony Armas pitch to the bullpen in left field for his team-leading 14th home run, scoring Orlando Cabrera to put the Angels up 9-1.

Dustin Moseley pitched a scoreless ninth to seal the win.

The only blemish on the night for the Angels came in the bottom of the third, when Matthews pulled up lame on an infield single. The center fielder left the game with a tight left hamstring. Scioscia said Matthews is day-to-day, but he will not play in Sunday's series finale.

With Oakland's loss earlier in the day, the Angels increased their American League West division lead to eight games over both the Athletics and the Mariners.

With Boston's loss at San Diego, the Angels have the most wins in the Major Leagues.  The team's 48th victory improved on its best start in franchise history.

The Angels have won three straight and eight of their last 10, and they will go for a sweep Sunday at Angel Stadium.






