
ANAHEIM -- Jarrod Washburn is a good fastball pitcher, but unfortunately for the Angels, the Tigers are a good fastball-hitting team.

After riding strong command of his heater and solid defensive play to wins in each of his last two outings, Washburn suffered some defensive misfortunes and left a few balls up in the zone on Sunday against Detroit.

The end result was not a pretty one, as Washburn allowed as many runs in the third inning -- six -- as he had allowed in his last four starts combined, and the Tigers cruised to a 10-1 victory to take a three-game set from the Angels.

The nine-run defeat was the Angels' worst of the season, but Washburn was only one of the factors.

Two Angels errors in the game and a couple of other misplays in the big third inning weren't very fortuitous. It also didn't help that Kevin Gregg relieved Washburn (2-1) with two men on and one out in the third and walked four Tigers, two with the bases loaded, before escaping the inning. Nor was it particularly good that Tigers lefty Mike Maroth (3-2) allowed only three hits in eight innings.

Nonetheless, Washburn took full accountability.

"I let the team down today," Washburn said. "I let the rest of the starters down. We had a heck of a run going."

Washburn's 2 1/3-inning, seven-run outing was the first time in seven games that the Angels didn't get a quality start from their starter.

The one-run output by the Angels' offense, though, wasn't quite as rare; the Angels scored a single run on Saturday, too.

In fact, the Angels haven't scored more than five runs in a game since April 23. During that span of 13 games, they have scored 42 runs (3.2 per game). The team batting average during that time is .217. Yet, the Angels have won eight of those 13 games.

"We're certainly not killing the ball," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "But we've supported our pitching enough to win most of the time."

Added third baseman Robb Quinlan: "We haven't played our best baseball yet. ... It's a matter of time before the hitting comes around for everyone."







   Robb Quinlan  /    1B







Born: 03/17/77
Height: 6'1"
Weight: 200 lbs
Bats: R / Throws: R


More info:
Player page
Stats | Splits
Gallery 
Team Site | Shop




-->






Quinlan, who entered the game 4-for-29 (.138) on the season, made the most of his first playing time in a week, hitting a homer to center field on Maroth's first pitch of the sixth inning for the Angels' only run.

Other than Quinlan's solo shot -- a line drive that skipped off the top of the fence -- the Angels struggled to make solid contact all afternoon against Maroth.

"He was moving the ball in and out, and he was throwing strikes most of the time," Quinlan said. "He didn't let up. He pitched his game, the whole game."

The Tigers' offense didn't let up, either, scoring in the first, third and seventh innings while notching 13 hits and four walks.

Brandon Inge deposited a low fastball from Washburn over the wall in left-center field for his first career leadoff home run, but Washburn recovered to pitch a perfect second. In the third, though, a few soft hits set the stage for trouble.

Omar Infante lined a single to left, and Nook Logan, trying to bunt Infante over, popped up a bunt that Washburn dived for and was unable to catch. The speedy Logan reached first on a single, and Inge blooped a single just a tad too shallow for right fielder Juan Rivera to hold in his glove.

Then, with a 1-1 count on Ivan Rodriguez, Washburn left a changeup chest high over the plate, and the Tigers' catcher drove it to left field for a bases-clearing triple.

After Rondell White singled, Dmitri Young doubled and White scored on left fielder Garret Anderson's fielding error. Scioscia came out to replace Washburn after 53 pitches and five runs, but Gregg couldn't find home plate.







   Kevin Gregg  /    P







Born: 06/20/78
Height: 6'6"
Weight: 220 lbs
Bats: R / Throws: R


More info:
Player page
Stats | Splits
Gallery 
Team Site | Shop




-->






The 6-foot-6 righty walked Craig Monroe, Infante, Logan and Inge before striking out Rodriguez, the 13th batter of the inning, to end the frame.

"The thing with Kevin right now is his command," Scioscia said. "That's something he and [pitching coach] Buddy Black have been working on a lot."

To his credit, Gregg got back on track and retired the Tigers in order the next three innings before tiring in the final inning of his 83-pitch relief outing.

In the eighth, White and Young singled before Monroe tapped into what could've been an inning-ending double play. However, second baseman Chone Figgins threw the ball away for an error, scoring White and advancing Monroe to second, from where he would score on Ramon Martinez's two-out double.

Clearly, it was not the prettiest of afternoons for the Angels. But there are no style points in the standings, where one loss is just like another.

"You're gonna get a clunker every once in a while," Scioscia said. "Today was certainly it, but we'll hopefully get at it tomorrow."

Recent history shows that the Angels can. After dropping a 12-4 game at Yankee Stadium on April 26, the Halos rebounded to win the next two games and the series.






