
SURPRISE, Ariz. -- It was one of those days the Wrigley Field faithful knows so well: wind blowing out, crooked numbers on the scoreboard, pitchers wondering what they'd done to deserve this.













The winds were whipping through Surprise Stadium at 26 mph, gusting up to 36 mph. Fifteen homers, eight by the Angels, sailed away, and there were 40 hits, 22 by the Angels, accumulated over a long Sunday afternoon.

If this had been a regular-season game, it would have been a new record for homers by two teams, eclipsing the 12 produced by the Tigers and White Sox on two occasions.

"It's not pitchers' weather," Angels starter John Lackey volunteered in the understatement of the day. "It's a good day to hit."

When it finally was over, the Angels had subdued the Royals, 18-12, to move to 17-4 in Cactus League play.

In Lackey's case, the conditions weren't nearly as appealing as they were for Matt Brown, who homered twice among his six hits. The Angels racked up eight homers, three by catchers. Joining Brown in the home-run party were Jeff Mathis, Mike Napoli, Ryan Budde, Juan Rivera, Robb Quinlan and Brandon Wood.

Making his fifth Cactus League start, Lackey departed having faced six batters without getting an out in the fifth inning. Alberto Callaspo and Mike Jacobs went deep, joining the home run party.

Lackey made it through 3 2/3 innings having allowed only one run, on Ryan Shealy's homer, while the Angels were racking up nine runs in the first two innings against lefty Horacio Ramirez. The first of two Miguel Olivo homers came in the fourth against Lackey.




YARDBALL
Most combined home runs in a regular-season game
HomersTeamsDate
12Tigers 6, White Sox 6July 2, 2002
12Tigers 7, White Sox 5May 28, 1995
11Tigers 8, Cubs 3June 18, 2006
11Cubs 6, Phillies 5May 17, 1979 (10 inn.)
11Cubs 6, Reds 5July 28, 1977 (13 inn.)
11Cubs 7, Mets 4June 11, 1967 (Game 2)
11Pirates 6, Reds 5Aug. 12, 1966 (13 inn.)



"When I was making good pitches," Lackey said, "the wind didn't matter. It showed up when I didn't make good pitches."

Almost doubling his pitch count to 90, Lackey -- who'd thrown in the bullpen after an economical 50 pitches in his previous outing -- lost some command in the fifth.

"I got a little tired, and the ball was going up a little," Lackey said, adding that he he needed to "push through it, keep getting stronger."

Angels manager Mike Scioscia saw some fatigue in Lackey's final inning, adding, "He was supposed to get to about 90 pitches today."

Lackey plans to make his next spring appearance in a camp game, avoiding another long drive to Tucson to work in conditions that are more manageable for Scioscia and his staff.

"They can control my innings [in a camp game]," Lackey said.

Asked if he feels he's ready for Opening Day -- still 15 days away -- Lackey said, "I don't know if I'm ready physically. I'm ready mentally, I guess."

There were no updates, Lackey said, on contract extension negotiations with Angels management.

Only one of five Angels pitchers -- right-hander Tim Kiely, working the ninth -- got through without yielding a run. Rich Thompson figured the only way to survive was to strike everybody out, which he did during a three-run eighth.

Southpaw Lenny DiNardo was the only Royals pitcher to escape unscathed, pitching a scoreless eighth.






