
ANAHEIM -- As the Angels recline in their respective easy chairs and take in a playoff game or two, the underlying sentiment will be the feeling of missed opportunity.

To a man in the clubhouse -- as they dutifully packed their belongings for a long winter's nap that does not include the postseason for the first time in three years -- is the notion that they simply didn't get it done.

"I'm disappointed, because we aren't going to Minnesota," Scot Shields said following Sunday's regular-season finale. "We're a little jealous. It's a bitter taste right now, and, hopefully, we'll be able to change that next year."

The Angels had made a habit of reaching the playoffs after winning two straight American League West titles leading into the 2006 season. Those expectations existed throughout, and while they put together a solid record of 89-73 that included a strong second-half push, it was not enough to ease their pain.

"Every time you don't go to the playoffs, for me, the season is a failure," said Orlando Cabrera, who won a ring with the Red Sox in 2004 and reached the American League Championship Series last season with the Angels. "That's my personal feeling."

It was the fourth year in Mike Scioscia's seven seasons as manager that the Angels were unable to reach the postseason, but the club is taking a forward view.

"You're disappointed any time you don't make the playoffs, and, naturally, we're disappointed. When we were eliminated last week, it was a tough night for all of us, but moving forward there were a lot of good things that happened on the field this year," Scioscia said. "I think we want to make sure to evaluate the good things and make sure they continue. And things where you need more depth and need to adjust, you'll make adjustments in the offseason.

"I think we're all proud of the way the guys kept going from 11 games under .500 to finishing up almost touching 20 games over .500. That's a great accomplishment. These guys played hard all year. There is nothing to hang their heads about."

Rising stars: Making a significant contribution for much of the year was an unlikely group.

Without the play of a solid crop of rookies and players like Juan Rivera and Maicer Izturis, who went from reserves to starters, the Angels would not have been near the top of the division. Many feel that is a positive indicator for the future.

"There were guys who stepped up: Rivera, Izturis, the guys that did things that nobody thought they could do by playing every day, showing up every night and playing hard and had a great season," Cabrera said. "You have [Jered] Weaver and [Joe] Saunders, [Mike] Napoli in that month when he was hitting, he was raking. All that stuff. When you see guys like that stepping up when guys are down and they elevate the way we played. That teaches us a lot and shows us that for next year it could be a different year for us."

Howie Kendrick is another rookie that proved he's ready for the big leagues and also proved his versatility by logging most of his time at first base, but he will move back to his natural position of second base if the Angels choose to not re-sign Adam Kennedy.

Injuries to players like Bartolo Colon, Darin Erstad, Casey Kotchman and Dallas McPherson accelerated the timelines of some but also served to the organization to more fully evaluate their young prospects.

"We've moved forward with some aspects of these guys getting experience and playing well up in the big leagues," Scioscia said. "It's only going to pay off if we can continue to achieve in the future. These kids will be a big part of it."

Good horizons: Owner Arte Moreno has publicly stated that the Angels will make a major acquisition this offseason, an idea that was met with great enthusiasm.

"It always feels good, because I have never been in that position before. That's the first time I had an owner say that in all my years," Cabrera said. "In Montreal, it was the other way: 'OK who are we going to trade this year? We need more money for our pocket, so we need to trade people.' Now, it's different. You have a guy who is saying we're going to do this; we're going to do that. We're going to get this guy; we're going to spend money. It's exciting."

John Lackey finished the season with two wins against the A's. Despite feeling disappointment over missing the playoffs, the prospect of the Angels being an active player in the market this winter is an encouraging sign for the right-hander.

"Nobody ever doubts Arte. He's been putting a quality product on the field. We know he's going to do what it takes to for us to be a winning team," Lackey said. "He tried to get the big bat last offseason and it just didn't work out. We don't doubt him. We know he wants to win just as much as we do."

Parting thoughts: Tim Salmon called it quits this season after a career that included a Rookie of the Year Award and a World Series ring, but he sees a bright future for the organization.

"I keep saying that this team is in the best health over the last few years that it has ever been in my career," said Salmon, who finished with 299 home runs. "When you look at the Minor Leagues, we're stockpiled, and you look at the Major Leagues, and we're always in position to go and get what we need. This team is primed to be winning for years to come."






