
ARLINGTON -- Vladimir Guerrero was back in the Angels' lineup Wednesday, but not in the field.

The reigning American League MVP was slotted as the designated hitter for the series finale with the Rangers. Guerrero suffered a bruised right knee while stealing third and scoring in Tuesday's 13-8 win. The throw from catcher Rod Barajas hit Guerrero as he slid into the bag and the ball skipped away, allowing Guerrero to score on the error.

He had one more at bat in the fourth, reaching on a fielder's choice and scoring his third run of the game, but did not go back out onto the field in the bottom of the inning and was replaced by Juan Rivera.

Guerrero iced his knee, but did not require any X-rays.

The Angels have their first break in the schedule Thursday before beginning a three-game series in Oakland on Friday, providing Guerrero with essentially a two-day break.

"We're anticipating him being out in the outfield Friday," manager Mike Scioscia said. "With him DHing and tomorrow off, he should be fine."

Before taking part in batting practice Wednesday, Guerrero said his knee was feeling much better. Jeff DaVanon played right and batted second.

Staying focused: Chone Figgins broke out of a 3-for-26 slump Tuesday by doubling twice and scoring three runs. The second baseman said he wasn't pressing, but was pleased by getting results that show up in the box score.

"It felt better to finally finish off some at-bats," Figgins said. "I've been swinging the bat well, but I wasn't finishing. Last night I finished."

Figgins said that in the batting cage, he focused on his hands during his stroke to help him hit through the ball more. Hitting coach Mickey Hatcher likes what he is seeing from Figgins in the early going and said he's mostly helping with his confidence.

"He's a good hitter," Hatcher said. "I just try and look at him and make sure he's not getting down about it. He'll be fine."

Figgins said he tries to keep moving forward while doing his part to keep his slow start from getting the better of him or carrying into the other parts of his game.

"I'm too good of a hitter to go through this for long," Figgins said. "I just have to go out and have the best at-bats I can and help the team win."

Figgins homered in his first at-bat Wednesday.

Needed, innings: Paul Byrd drew his second start of the season and his first against the Rangers on Wednesday. Byrd was knocked around a bit in his first start, something that all of the regulars in the rotation have experienced in the early going of 2005.

Not only has that produced some tight ballgames, but it has put pressure on the bullpen. Angels relievers have already logged 30 1/3 innings coming into Wednesday night's contest.

"It is an absolute for our pitching to do what it needs to do," Scioscia said. "Our guys need to pitch deeper into games."

Scioscia believes it has more to do with the time of year than any tendencies.

"Everything is magnified at the beginning of the year," Scioscia said. "Some guys have stumbled. They're still trying to find their sea legs."

On deck: After an off-day Thursday, the Angels travel to Oakland for their first look at the A's this season. Right-hander Bartolo Colon will take on A's left-hander Barry Zito to open the three-game series on Friday. Game time is 7:05 p.m. PT.








