
ANAHEIM -- It was an enviable lead by most accounts. John Lackey stared down right fielder Michael Cuddyer with his signature grimace, the scoreboard behind him reading one out in the top of the fourth. 

Angels 4, Twins 0. 

One ball, two strikes. Lackey, flawless through three innings, had just surrendered his first hit of the day only a batter ago, a line-drive single to center field.

The breaking ball leaving Lackey's hand, down and inside on the right-handed batter waiting for the pitch, proved far more costly.

Angels 4, Twins 2.

In an instant, Cuddyer launched the errant pitch into the left-field stands, cutting Minnesota's deficit in half. A four-run fifth inning, highlighted by a Nick Punto three-run blast, sounded the death knell for the Halos in an eventual 8-5 loss to close out a three-game series and 10-game homestand at Angel Stadium on Wednesday.

The fifth, ultimately the inning that snapped the Angels' five-game win streak, could have been avoided had the usually infallible Orlando Cabrera not suffered the inconvenience of being human.

It all started with a Mike Redmond grounder to Cabrera -- what Angels manager Mike Scioscia called a "kangaroo hop" -- that rolled past the shortstop and allowed Redmond to reach base safely.

Jason Kubel sent another ground ball Cabrera's way on the next at-bat, an easy forceout that could have yielded a double play, but the usually able-bodied Cabrera misplayed the ball and watched helplessly as it skipped off the edge of his glove. 

Two men on, none out, Punto up to bat.

"Orlando's human," Scioscia said. "He's as consistent as you can get. Today, there were a couple of plays that he'll make 99 times out of 100. That's baseball. We'll turn the page and move on."

Punto, seeking redemption after playing victim to sunlight and dropping a foul ball just beyond the third-base line in the previous inning, deposited a Lackey fastball into the right-field stands with the count full. The knock was his first since Aug. 25, 2006.

Twins 5, Angels 4.

With two outs, Luis Castillo on second and Cuddyer back at the plate, a passed ball by Mike Napoli moved Castillo to third before being brought home on a lined single to left by May's American League Player of the Month, Justin Morneau.

Twins 6, Angels 4.

With their lead all but evaporated, the Halos battled back in the sixth, trimming the Twins' advantage to 6-5 courtesy of a leadoff home run by second baseman Howie Kendrick. But a pair of Minnesota runs in the ninth effectively bolted the door for good, rendering Kendrick's third jack of the season useless.

"I don't think John was that far off," Scioscia said. "He kept us in the game as much as he could and he usually pitches well with the lead, but he just couldn't get them for a couple of innings. We gave him some extra outs in [the fifth] inning, and that's tough for any pitcher."

Lackey, in search of his 10th win to improve upon his Major League-leading nine victories, finished with seven hits, while allowing four earned runs through seven innings of work.

"I would only take really one pitch back," Lackey said. "I threw a bad breaking ball to Cuddyer. Other than that, I pitched pretty good."

As for the media-infused "race" to capture his 10th win, Lackey -- always one to put his team before personal accolades -- simply shrugged off the loss. "It's a race to get to 100 [wins] for the team, to win the division."

Napoli led the Halos offensively with two RBI singles to left field, giving the catcher 18 RBIs in his last 18 games. First baseman Casey Kotchman and outfielder Reggie Willits each contributed RBI doubles, while Cabrera atoned for his defensive miscues with two hits and a run scored, tying him with Seattle center fielder Ichiro Suzuki for an American League-best 78 hits. Third baseman Chone Figgins, continuing to raise his average after batting below .200 for much of the season, is now the beneficiary of a seven-game hit streak and .220 average.

The Angels ended their 10-game homestand with a 7-3 mark. They will embark on a nine-game road trip starting Friday, making stops at St. Louis, Cincinnati and cross-town Dodger Stadium to begin Interleague Play.







