
CHICAGO -- Francisco Rodriguez threw 20 pitches on Monday, providing solid encouragement to the Angels staff.

The problem was the closer's outing took place in Rancho Cucamonga, two time zones away from where the club really needed him.

That was at U.S. Cellular Field, where understudy Scot Shields gave up a two-out, two-run single to Timo Perez to blow his second save of the season as the White Sox stole back a 5-4 win in a late-inning seesaw affair that produced two lead changes in the final frame.

After the Angels fought back in the top of the ninth to take a 4-3 lead in somewhat improbable fashion as the White Sox twice failed to convert double plays, Shields broke the Cardinal rule of closers. He gave up a walk, and not just one but two. Making his task that much tougher, the walks were to Juan Uribe and Joe Crede, the first two batters of the inning.

Shields then found his command, but Scott Podsednik was able to lay down a bunt to advance the runners. With first base open, manager Mike Scioscia elected to not walk pinch-hitter Carl Everett, and the strategy worked as Shields fanned Everett on three pitches.

But Perez, who came in as the DH for Frank Thomas in the seventh inning, fought off a 1-1 pitch and sliced the game-winner down the left-field line to send a Memorial Day sellout crowd into delirium, just moments after voicing their shocked displeasure for nearly kicking the game away a half-inning earlier.

"I couldn't throw strikes early and that has gotten me in trouble in the past," Shields said, who took the loss. "I need to cut down on walks and throw strikes."

Shields (4-2) has been mostly electric on the mound this season and has capably filled Rodriguez's shoes while the closer has been on the disabled list with a right forearm strain. His other blown save was on April 7, when a pair of walks was also the cause of his troubles in an appearance against Texas.

But he righted that ship and held on to get the win when the Angels rallied in the top of the ninth. Over his next 20 relief appearances, Shields allowed only one run.

In the slightly more than two weeks since Rodriguez has been on the shelf, Shields had converted five saves out of five opportunities and only looked shaky in Sunday's 7-6 win at home over the Royals, when he allowed two runs on three hits and a walk in the ninth inning, but still held on for to earn the save.

Shields said he has not been overworked, and manager Mike Scioscia believes his reliever is still fresh and able to handle the load of the late innings. But Shields' ninth inning Monday was the 31st of his season, which is tops among Angels relievers.

"I think he's been used a lot, but he keeps responding to the challenge," Scioscia said. "Today, by the time he got locked in, there were two guys on. It is tough, when you have first and second and none out, to get out of a jam."

Shields agreed that the situation was essentially of his own making.

"I should have never been in that position," Shields said. "I feel fine; my arm feels good. I just didn't get my command."

Rodriguez was scheduled to fly to Chicago on Monday night and rejoin the club Tuesday. If all goes well from this last simulated game, Rodriguez will be activated from the DL for Wednesday's series finale with the White Sox.

That will push Shields back into a setup role, with the occasional option to close, which will provide him with some added motivation.

"I like the role I'm in right now, but I know it is only for a few more days," Shields said. "I want to close again because I want to show that I can do it and I'm not fatigued."

Both starters had similar lines, but performed as two different pitchers.

Jarrod Washburn took the ball for the Angels and never looked settled. The left-hander allowed three runs on eight hits and four walks over six innings, but needed some solid defense and some luck to keep his team in the game.

The White Sox twice loaded the bases with none out and came away with just three runs. In the second, Washburn escaped with just a sac fly and in the third, after a walk and two singles, third baseman Dallas McPherson started a 5-2-3 double play. Aaron Rowand followed with a two-run double, but the scoring ended there.

Washburn nearly started a triple play in the fourth. Chris Widger and Uribe opened with singles and then Crede popped up a sacrifice attempt. Washburn caught the fly and threw to first, but Chone Figgins, who was covering, could not get the ball to shortstop Orlando Cabrera in time for the third out. Widger was then nailed at home on an assist from Steve Finley to Bengie Molina on Podsednik's single to center.

"There wasn't one pitch that was working today," Washburn said. "It was amazing I was able to get out of those jams."

The Angels rallied in the ninth as Robb Quinlan's RBI single scored Juan Rivera to tie the game and Figgins' bases-loaded walk put the Angels up, 4-3. Finley drilled his seventh homer of the season in the fourth and scored on Cabrera's RBI single in the sixth.

Mark Buehrle nearly went the distance for the White Sox, but was pulled after allowing two hits and a fielder's choice in the ninth. The left-hander allowed four runs, three of which were earned, on nine hits and a walk over 8 1/3 innings for a no-decision. Reliever Cliff Politte (1-0) picked up the win.






