
ANAHEIM -- "There's nothing wrong with a little sibling rivalry," said Jeff
Weaver. "Hopefully, we build up each other throughout the course of the
year."

Jeff Weaver was talking about his brother, Jered Weaver, in the Angels'
clubhouse a few hours before 23-year-old Jered was to make his Major League debut.

"We've been really close the last two years and always on the phone
talking," said 29-year-old Jeff of his younger brother, who now combine to make up two-fifths of the Angels' starting roation. "We kind of know
what each other goes through when we're out there. And we are there for each
other."

Saturday night, more than 40 members of the Weaver family and friends were at
Angel Stadium.
Jeff Weaver was asked about his first Major League game back on April 14,
1999, when he beat the Minnesota Twins, 7-1, for the Detroit Tigers.

"I remember, I don't think you ever forget your first outing," he said.
"You work so hard for it. I don't think you forget warming up in the bullpen
beforehand, hearing your name announced over the loud speaker. Obviously,
that first person that steps into the box you never forget."

That first person Saturday night was Baltimore's Brian Roberts. And Jered
Weaver, wearing No. 56, got Roberts to ground out to second on his sixth big-league pitch.

Weaver retired Melvin Mora on an infield popup and finished off his first
Major League inning by getting Miguel Tejada to fly out to right. All told,
14 pitches, four balls 10 strikes. A pretty auspicious start.

"It's going to be a whirlwind for him," said Jeff Weaver. "After it's all
said and done, it's going to be something he's going to
remember forever."

The elder Weaver recalled that the first batter he faced was Torii Hunter and he
struck him out. He went on to pitch five scoreless innings and gave up his
first hit in the sixth inning to Ron Coomer "and that was the end of my
night."

Asked about advice he might give his brother, he said, "He's been
fortunate enough to be around it for a while, so he's been able to see what
goes on. Obviously, he's more prepared than I would have been at that time.
"I'm just looking forward to him doing what he knows he can. He
obviously had a nice little stretch in Salt Lake to get his
confidence."

Jered Weaver was 4-1 with a 1.89 ERA for the Triple-A Bees.

While Jeff Weaver was the 14th pick overall in the 1998 draft by the Tigers,
Jered Weaver was selected 12th overall in the 2004 draft by the Angels.
Jered Weaver finished his collegiate career at Long Beach State with a 37-9 record and a 2.43 ERA.
A native of Simi Valley, Calif., Jered Weaver led Long Beach State to the
NCAA Super Regionals in 2004 and won eight National Player of the Year
awards that season.

In 2005, Jered Weaver finished a combined 7-4 with a 3.91 ERA in 15 starts at
Class A Rancho Cucamonga and Double-A Arkansas.
"I know he's got his ears filled with phone calls and ticket requests," said
Jeff. "And he's got to go through that on his own. I just wish him good luck
and tell him to go out there with his head held high and do what he's
capable of."

Jered Weaver and their folks were at Jeff's debut, but as Jeff Weaver noted,
"I don't think Jered had as good a seat then as I have tonight."

Brothers in arms: Jered and Jeff Weaver are the third pair of
brothers to appear with the Angels (Bengie and Jose Molina, Stu and Stan
Cliburn) and they are  the 17th set of brothers (since 1900) to be on the
same pitching staff. Notables on the list include Christy and Henry
Mathewson (New York Giants, 1906-07), Dizzy and Paul Dean (St. Louis, 1934-37), Phil
and Joe Niekro (Atlanta, 1972-73; Yankees, 1985), Jim and Gaylord Perry
(Cleveland, 1974-75), Paul and Rick Reuschel (Chicago Cubs, 1975-78), Mickey and
Rick Mahler (Atlanta, 1979), Ramon and Pedro Martinez (Dodgers, 1992-93) and Andy and Alan Benes (St. Louis, 1996-97, 2000-01).

Colon hurls simulated game:  Bartolo Colon, the reigning  AL Cy Young
Award winner who has been out of action since April 16 because of shoulder
inflammation, threw a simulated game Saturday afternoon.

"He threw 44 pitches and all his stuff looked good," said manager
Mike Sciocia, who got a hit off Colon "going the opposite way.
"We're going to see how he comes out of it [Sunday]. There's a possibility of him going out to rehab. But we'll see how it feels
tomorrow. If not we can repeat this or go out and pitch."

Colon would likely need at least two Minor League starts before returning to
the rotation, possibly in early June.
With Colon out for now, Jered Weaver will likely get at least three starts
as he takes over for Kevin Gregg, who was in the starting rotation but returned to the bullpen.


 Anderson sets milestone: Garret Anderson broke Brian Downing's
record for most games played in Angels history (1,662) Saturday night.

Over the last three seasons, Anderson has become the club's all-time leader
in hits, doubles, total bases and RBIs.

Heading into Saturday's game, Anderson was 28 hits shy of 2,000.  He ranked
second to Tim Salmon in home runs (295 to 228) and second to Rod Carew in career average (.314 to .298).

Anderson promptly singled home the Angels first run with a single to right in the
first inning, scoring Orlando Cabrera, who led off with a double.

 On deck: The Angels face the Orioles in the finale of the three-game series Sunday afternoon, and they will turn to right-hander Kelvim Escobar
(5-4, 3.60 ERA). Escobar is 12-3 lifetime against the Orioles with nine saves.
Right-hander Kris Benson (6-4, 4.62) will be on the mound for the O's.






