
ANAHEIM -- Following the Maicer Izturis model for Miniscule Mayhem, Chone Figgins rocketed a two-run souvenir to right field in the sixth to help cement a swelling Los Angeles lead on Sunday.

Jeff Mathis added a blast of his own in the eighth -- just in case Figgins' long ball didn't register a blip on the Minnesota pitching staff's battered radar -- and Jered Weaver provided the defense to complement the surge, tossing 7 1/3 solid innings in a 6-2 win over the Twins to complete a three-game sweep at Angel Stadium. 

Weaver allowed two runs on five hits to secure his eighth win of the season. 

"He did a great job changing speeds, locating his fastball, and he finished some guys off with some terrific breaking balls," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "I thought he had a great game plan with a tough lineup. He did a terrific job." 

Weaver's plan was contingent upon efficiency, eliminating as many batters in three pitches or fewer as his right arm would allow. Weaver proved successful in that respect, using only 93 pitches before exiting. 

"I'm not going to be able to strike everybody out," he said. "It's not college anymore, so I was trying to just go up there and make some outs in the first three pitches, and for the most part, I was able to do that today." 

As Weaver orchestrated the string of pitches that would grant him his first victory since July 27, his older brother, Seattle starter Jeff Weaver, was similarly domineering, tossing a five-hit complete-game shutout against the White Sox at U.S. Cellular Field. 

"I was peeking up at the board every once in a while to see how he was doing," the younger Weaver said. "I saw that they ended up shutting them out. It was just a matter of how long he went. Then I came up [to the clubhouse] and everybody told me had a C.G. 

"I've matched up with him a couple times on the same day, but I think this is the first time we both got a win out of it, so it's a good day for the Weavers today." 

Like the Brothers Weaver, the Halos offense had a day worth noting, piling up 11 hits while pushing six runs across the plate. 

A Casey Kotchman RBI single put the Angels on the board for the first time in the second to break a scoreless drought and put his team up, 1-0. 

Consecutive one-out singles by Reggie Willits and Figgins in the fifth set up an RBI double to left by Orlando Cabrera to plate Willits. With runners on second and third
Vladimir Guerrero drew an intentional walk -- much to the dismay of the 43,911 in attendance -- to load the bases. Once the boos subsided, Garret Anderson grounded into a forceout that scored Figgins, extending the Angels' lead to 3-0. 

The Twins answered with a Jason Bartlett sacrifice fly in the top of the sixth that trimmed the deficit to 3-1, but Figgins' long ball in the bottom of the inning put the game out of reach. 

Figgins was asked if he was trying to outdo teammate Izturis, who boasted three game-altering round-trippers during this current six-game homestand -- two of them coming on consecutive nights to open the series against the Twins. 

"No." 

Did Izturis' acts of heroism inspire Figgins to pen his own celebrated tale? 

"No." 

"I'm happy for him," Figgins said. "It's on our side. We're lucky he's on our team. It's just sometimes smaller guys try to hit line drives, and you get under it a little bit, and it carries out for you." 

The Angels wrapped up their latest homestand victorious in five of six contests, taking two from Boston on Monday and Tuesday before sweeping the Twins on Friday through Sunday. 

"I think we did a lot of things on the field this last week that are going to be important for us to take on the road," Scioscia said. 

He credited the team's situational hitting and a pitching staff that surrendered only 21 runs in six contests as non-negotiable necessities when the American League West leaders embark on a six-day, seven-game road trip, including a doubleheader at Fenway Park, beginning in Toronto on Tuesday. 

Despite the sustained outpouring of excellence at home by the Angels this season, the ever-looming Mariners still trail by only 3 1/2 games. Should this trend continue, Jered may be forced to face off against brother Jeff to determine the division champ, a scenario the younger Weaver would like to avoid. 

"I don't know," he said. "It'd be kind of weird. I guess I would have to be in the situation to see how I would feel, but I'd rather pass on that." 

And as for the issue of who his parents might root for? 

"We might have to get a jersey half Seattle, half Anaheim," he joked. 







