
ANAHEIM -- It was retro night at Angel Stadium on Friday.

But it was not an evening for misty-eye nostalgia, just the opportunity for the Angels to play misty for the hometown crowd.

Because despite the fact the calendar said it was April, the scene struck the uncanny pose of last October with the White Sox strutting and flexing as the dominant team. The only difference was Chicago manager Ozzie Guillen actually visited the mound.

The defending World Series champs broke from the gate early and held on for an 8-5 win over the Angels to open the series.

Chicago's win also extended its winning streak to five games over the Angels, a string that dates to the American League Championship Series last October when the White Sox won four straight games, including three in this ballpark, to claim the AL pennant.

Freddy Garcia, one of four starters to throw a complete game in that playoff series against the Angels, picked up the victory Friday and the 103rd in his career to become the winningest Venezuelan-born pitcher in Major League history.

"We don't have to have any emotional victories or psychological victories to get past these guys. We have to achieve by some guys having some hits fall in," manager Mike Scioscia said. "We have to beat them by whatever means it takes. There is no stigma, but we just didn't get it done tonight."

Putting his club in a hole Friday was Angels starter Jeff Weaver, whose strong start quickly evaporated. The right-hander allowed a leadoff single to Scott Podsednik but the White Sox left fielder was erased when catcher Jose Molina picked him off with a strong throw to Casey Kotchman at first.

Weaver then struck out Tad Iguchi and Jim Thome to end the inning. Thome suffered four punchouts on the night.

Weaver's fortune unraveled in the second inning, though, as he walked Paul Konerko and gave up a single to Jermaine Dye to open the inning. A.J. Pierzynski hit a soft liner to second and Joe Crede singled to right to load the bases.

After Weaver struck out Juan Uribe, his chances of escaping the inning unscathed increased dramatically when No. 9 hitter Brian Anderson and his .164 batting average stepped in. The White Sox center fielder also had just one hit in his previous 11 at-bats and 20 strikeouts in his last 16 games.

But Weaver walked Anderson to force in a run. Podsednik then bounced a single under the glove of second baseman Adam Kennedy, a ball similar to the one he caught and began an inning-ending double play in Oakland last weekend. This one skipped free, though, and the White Sox scored two runs to take the lead.

Iguchi then drove Garret Anderson to the fence in left field, but Anderson pulled up slightly and the ball fell for a two-run double.

In the third, Weaver hit Konerko with a pitch and Dye drilled a two-run homer to straightaway center that landed on the batter's eye and rolled nearly to the concourse before trickling to the rock pile. Pierzynski singled and scored on Uribe's triple to right-center as the White Sox took an 8-2 lead.

Weaver (1-3) allowed eight runs on eight hits and two walks over 2 1/3 innings.

"Very simply, I walked the No. 9 hitter with two out," Weaver said of what led to his downfall. "You work your tail off to get the two outs and you walk the nine-hole hitter and bring up the leadoff hitter again with the bases loaded. It just went from there."

It was the second time in two starts that Weaver has failed to pitch well in front of his new hometown crowd and the locals let him know.

"I deserve to get booed," Weaver said. "I got my butt kicked."

The Angels hit .175 in the ALCS against the White Sox and appeared to put those memories behind them in the first on the strength of Vladimir Guerrero's two-run homer.

Chone Figgins opened with a leadoff walk and, after Orlando Cabrera flied out to left, Guerrero hammered a 1-0 pitch to left off Garcia. It was the second home run in the last two games for Guerrero and his sixth of the year.

With the Angels down 8-3 in the seventh, Guerrero and Anderson hit run-scoring singles to pull within three, but the rally fell short when Tim Salmon, representing the tying run, flied out to center to end the inning.

"We had some opportunities on the offensive side," Scioscia said. "We got into a position but we fell short."






