
There will be no Alex Rodriguez sightings in Anaheim in 2008 until the New York Yankees arrive for three games starting Aug. 8, returning exactly one month later for another three-game set.

The speculative focus now will be fixed on the likes of Miguel Cabrera, Mike Lowell, Scott Rolen, Troy Glaus and Joe Crede.

The Angels' level of interest in those and other names surfacing in the marketplace is difficult to accurately measure; management is disclosing no hints of its plans to improve the 2007 American League West champions beyond keeping all doors and avenues open.

Cabrera, a 24-year-old third baseman/outfielder with immense offensive appeal, has been linked to the Angels from various sources. The merchandise Florida is seeking in return is considerable. Among names getting tossed around are second baseman Howard Kendrick, right-handed starter Nick Adenhart and shortstop/third baseman Brandon Wood.

These happen to be, by most accounts, the premier young talents in the organization, along with the more established Casey Kotchman. The Angels are all about building from within, but Cabrera is a rare talent just entering his prime with four huge years already on his resume. Guys who average 30 homers and 115 RBIs don't fall out of trees.

As for Lowell, reports out of Boston that the Angels are willing to ante up four years for the veteran third baseman were neither confirmed nor denied by new GM Tony Reagins, who said he doesn't comment on rumors.

A highly respected professional with a quality glove to go with his consistent offensive production, Lowell, who turns 34 in February, would improve any club. But a red flag is attached here: Fenway Park clearly has inflated his offensive numbers.

Of Lowell's club-high 120 RBIs in 2007, 73 came at home. Of his 21 homers, 14 left Fenway. He batted .373 at home and .276 on the road, slugging .575 at Fenway, .428 everywhere else.

In other words, buyer beware.

St. Louis' Rolen and Toronto's Glaus -- a huge favorite in Orange County, for good reason (Glaus played at UCLA and is from  Tarzana) -- are on the market with hefty price tags: three years, $36 million for Rolen; $12.75 million for Glaus. Both also have recent injury histories impossible to ignore.

Crede, 29, was limited by injuries to 49 games in 2007. He's a solid player who excelled in the 2005 postseason for the champion White Sox, and he's available. But he's not the cleanup hitter the Angels covet, based on his .259 career average and .446 slugging percentage.

Among free agents, San Francisco's Pedro Feliz is a superb defensive third baseman with power, but his lack of discipline offensively is reflected by a .288 career on-base percentage and 500 strikeouts in 2,840 at-bats.

Let the speculation continue as the Dec. 3-6 Winter Meetings, held this year in Nashville, Tenn., approach.

High on Santana: His name is certain to surface in trade rumors, but Ervin Santana remains very much in the Angels' plans, according to manager Mike Scioscia.

"This was a real growth season for Ervin," Scioscia said of the 24-year-old right-hander, who fell to 7-14 with a 5.76 ERA after going a combined 28-16 his first two seasons with 4.65 and 4.28 ERAs. "Sometimes you grow through adversity.

"This kid was great his first two years, 28 wins in two years. This guy has the potential to be a front-end guy in a rotation. I think he learned a little more about his delivery.

"He got a great feel for rhythm and timing, hip turn, focus on the mound. He understands he's got the talent to do it, but if it's not together on the mound, it's not going to happen."

Demoted to Triple-A Salt Lake on July 18, Santana came back in mid-August with one spectacular performance in Boston followed by two poor outings, three solid ones and a rocky finale in Texas.

"He made some great adjustments," Scioscia said. "He's maturing, gaining confidence. He is going to be a big part of a championship rotation."

Adenhart needs time: Widely considered the pitching gem of the organization, Adenhart, 21, continued his development in 2007 with Double-A Arkansas and figures to open the '08 season at Salt Lake.

A 6-foot-4 right-hander from Williamsport, Md., Adenhart has a fastball that reaches the mid-90s along with a big curveball and a circle changeup -- the full package.

In 153 innings at Arkansas, where he was 10-8 with a 3.65 ERA in 26 outings, Adenhart had 65 walks and 116 strikeouts. He hit 17 batters, suggesting an inclination to work inside, and yielded only seven homers, indicating an ability to pitch down in the strike zone.

"He needs some time," Scioscia said. "Part of pitching is understanding putting pitches together. He's not nearly a finished product, ready to have his talent play in the Major Leagues. He's getting closer."

Adenhart had Tommy John elbow ligament replacement surgery on his right elbow in his senior year of high school, enabling the Angels to take him in the 14th round of the 2004 First-Year Player Draft and sign him for $710,000.

Holiday spirit: Angels groundskeepers are holding their seventh annual Thanksgiving Holiday Canned Food Drive today through Sunday at Angel Stadium. Participants can enter through Gate 1 from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. PT.

Fans will have the opportunity to step up to the plate and swing for the fences. Donations of two cans of food will be good for one swing against a pitching machine with a maximum of 20 pitches per participant. Fans may also donate $2 per pitch as well.

Speed pitch machines will also be set up in the bullpens giving fans the opportunity to test their pitching skills for a donation of one canned food item or $1 per pitch. Fans also can shag fly balls in the outfield for a donation of $25 for 15 minutes. The Angels will provide bats, balls and helmets.

All proceeds will benefit the Second Harvest Food Bank of Orange County in the fight against hunger during the holiday season. Donations may be made to Second Harvest Food Bank, 426-A West Almond, Orange, CA 92866. The website is www.feedoc.org.






