
The Angels continued their strong showing in Major League Baseball's postseason awards parade on Wednesday, but they still haven't floated a winner.

Mike Scioscia was runner-up to Cleveland's Eric Wedge in the Manager of the Year balloting disclosed by the Baseball Writers' Association of America.

The only candidate named on all 28 ballots cast by two writers in each league city, Wedge was the first-place choice of 19 voters, compared to four by Scioscia. Former Yankees skipper Joe Torre claimed five first-place votes, but fell one point short of Scioscia in the overall balloting.

Scioscia collected 11 second-place votes and nine for third, giving him 62 points. Recently named manager of the Los Angeles Dodgers, Torre, a two-time winner of the award (1996 and '98), had eight seconds and 12 thirds for 61 points.

Wedge, a first-time winner, had 116 points with six seconds and three thirds.

"I thought Eric did a great job and is deserving of this award," said Scioscia, who passed Bill Rigney on May 4 with win No. 626 at the Angels' helm to become the franchise leader, finishing the season with 703 career wins and a .542 winning percentage.

"Our team did a great job this season of staying together and playing at a high level," Scioscia said. "I've been fortunate to have a great staff and some terrific players. Any milestones I reach are organizational achievements."

Terry Francona, who won his second World Series in four seasons with the Red Sox, was the only other manager to receive votes and was fourth with 13 points. Voting is conducted prior to postseason play.

Arizona's Bob Melvin was chosen as the National League Manager of the Year.

Scioscia kept the Angels in charge of the AL West from April 25 to the finish, holding off a challenge by Seattle with a crucial late August three-game sweep of the Mariners in Seattle.

Winning the division for the third time in four years, the Angels -- weakened by injuries -- were swept by Boston in three games in the AL Division Series.


table#moy_vote td {text-align:right;padding:1px 4px 1px 1px;border-left:1px solid #ccc;}table#moy_vote td.left {text-align:left;border:0;}


2007 AL Manager of the Year Award Voting


Manager, Club
1st
2nd
3rd
Points


Eric Wedge, CLE
19
6
3
116


Mike Scioscia, LAA
4
11
9
62


Joe Torre, NYY
5
8
12
61


Terry Francona, BOS
 
3
4
13




A seemingly endless succession of injuries and ailments to key personnel forced Scioscia to be resourceful and creative with his pitching staff and his lineup. He rarely had the same nine players available for more than a few games in a row.

Two members of the starting rotation -- Bartolo Colon and Jered Weaver -- began the season on the disabled list, along with versatile Chone Figgins. Juan Rivera, one of the club's primary run producers, wasn't available until September after suffering a broken leg in December playing winter ball.

After shortstop Orlando Cabrera (155 starts) and right fielder/designated hitter Vladimir Guerrero (151), the next most durable Angels were center fielder Gary Matthews Jr. (137) and fourth outfielder Reggie Willits (119 starts).

Garret Anderson, Maicer Izturis, Howard Kendrick, Erick Aybar, Mike Napoli and Colon each made two trips to the DL, and new setup artist Justin Speier was lost to a viral infection for nine weeks.

Scioscia was selected as 2002 AL Manager of the Year for leading the Angels to the Wild Card, then guiding the club to the World Series championship in a seven-game triumph over San Francisco.

Wedge, who led the Indians to the American League Central title and shared with the Red Sox the best record in the Majors in 2007, is the first Cleveland manager honored with the award, which the BBWAA first presented in 1983.

Wedge, who finished second in the 2005 balloting to Ozzie Guillen of the White Sox, took the Indians to their first postseason appearance in six years with a 96-66 record, coming off a 78-84 mark in 2006. Cleveland eliminated the Yankees in four games in the Division Series before losing in seven games to the Red Sox in the AL Championship Series.

At 39 years, 10 months, Wedge -- in his fifth season as Indians manager -- is the third youngest manager to win the award. Buck Showalter was 38 years, six months, when he won for the first time in 1994 with the New York Yankees. Showalter won again in 2004 with the Texas Rangers.

Tony La Russa was a month past 39 years old when he won the first of his four Manager of the Year Awards in 1983 with the White Sox. He won again in the AL with the Athletics in 1988 and 1992 and in the NL with the Cardinals in 2002.

Atlanta's Bobby Cox is also a four-time Manager of the Year. Detroit's Jim Leyland and Cincinnati's Dusty Baker are three-time Managers of the Year. Leyland won twice with Pittsburgh, Baker three times with San Francisco.






