
 ANGELS 8, CUBS (ss) 2
at Tempe, Ariz.
Friday, March 13


Angels at the plate: Kendry Morales, who singled in his first at-bat, unloaded a grand slam, his first homer of the spring, to highlight a six-run second inning against Chad Gaudin. Ryan Budde delivered a pair of singles, and Chris Pettit singled and drove in a run. Howie Kendrick singled and walked, picking up an RBI.














Cubs at the plate: Bobby Scales was credited with a two-run double when a windblown pop fly fell into shallow center, beyond the grasp of shortstop Erick Aybar. Milton Bradley and Doug Deeds singled in front of Scales and scored on the full-count popup with two outs.



Angels on the mound: Dustin Moseley delivered four strong innings, allowing two earned runs on a popup that was lost in the sun and fell for a gift double by Scales on what should have been the third out of the fourth inning. Moseley struck out four and walked one, allowing four hits. Darren Oliver yielded two hits in a scoreless inning, striking out one, and Jose Arredondo walked one man in a scoreless inning. Sean O'Sullivan pitched two perfect innings, striking out one. Jason Bulger struck out two of three in the ninth.



Cubs on the mound: Gaudin fought his control, walking four men along with five hits and six earned runs in 1 2/3 innings. He served up a first-pitch grand slam to Morales. Justin Berg pitched 1 1/3 innings of scoreless relief. Mitch Atkins worked two scoreless innings, yielding two hits and a walk while striking out two, and Chad Fox and Ken Kadokura each worked a scoreless inning.



Cactus League records: Angels 11-3; Cubs (ss) 8-9


Up next: The Angels travel to Mesa on Saturday to engage the Cubs at 1:05 p.m. PT. All-Star Joe Saunders makes his third start of the spring, hoping to stretch it out to four innings after yielding one earned run in five previous innings. Expected to follow Saunders to the mound are Matt Palmer, Brian Fuentes, Barret Browning, Fernando Rodriguez and Matt Wilhite.

Fuentes, who will be making his third appearance of the spring, yielded three earned runs in one inning in his most recent outing on March 4 and experienced back spasms, but a bullpen session on Wednesday apparently has him back on course. Because of the back spasms, the three-time All-Star decided not to join Team USA for this weekend's second round of the World Baseball Classic.






