
ANAHEIM -- It wasn't exactly an awakening, more of a restless stir that inevitably occurs before the alarm clock bleats its nettlesome tone.

The Angels had their share of weak groundouts and pop-ups with runners in scoring position, but wedged in between on Tuesday were a pair of two-run homers that were part of an 11-hit package in a 5-4 win over the Indians.

Scot Shields tossed a pair of superb scoreless innings of relief while Francisco Rodriguez weathered a ninth-inning home run by Coco Crisp for his ninth save to preserve the win for starter Paul Byrd.

Adam Kennedy added an insurance run with a bases-loaded infield single in the eighth.

While a number of at-bats lacked the confidence that is second nature to the veteran lineup, Garret Anderson's drive on the first pitch he saw from C.C. Sabathia in the bottom of the first and Josh Paul's two-out difference maker in the fifth demonstrated the Angels batting order is highly capable of punishing mistakes.

The Angels entered Tuesday's game with a .170 batting average over their previous 14 games. In Monday's loss to the Indians, the club lacked its trademark aggressiveness as Kevin Millwood controlled the tempo with first-pitch strikes.

But a two-out single by Vladimir Guerrero, his first ever hit off Sabathia, was an early indicator that the Angels' offensive nap may have been given a roust.

"We had much better at-bats tonight and off a tough pitcher," manager Mike Scioscia said. "That was encouraging."

Anderson picked up Guerrero with a drive to right-center that he positively squared to give the Angels an early 2-0 lead.

After the Indians forged a 2-2 tie off Byrd in the fifth, Paul's two-run blast to left in the bottom half of the inning, his first of the year, on a 2-2 pitch from Sabathia provided the boost to not only Byrd, but to the rest of the Angels' dugout.

Paul was behind the plate in his customary spot start as the batterymate to Byrd. Since Bengie Molina went on the disabled list April 18, Paul has gotten the call over current starter Jose Molina on the days that are Byrd's turns to pitch.

Each of Byrd's three wins has come with Paul calling the game and the right-hander not only feels a level of comfort with the part-time backstop, but a sense of gratitude.

"The fact that Josh Paul hit a two-run homer, I felt I had to win after that," Byrd said. "He doesn't play that much and I felt I had to do my part."

Crisp, who was a triple shy of the cycle Tuesday, appeared to have a shot at Paul's drive, but the ball landed just out of reach of the Indians' left fielder.

"I thought he was going to take that one back," Paul said. "I probably would have shot myself."

Paul came into Tuesday's game as one of the offensively challenged Angels, going 2-for-17 over 11 games. But a couple of days back, he made a slight adjustment to his hand position and found results.

He believes the rest of the lineup will be finding results soon and the clubhouse is not getting anxious over their recent slumber.

"One of the great things about the chemistry on this team is we play loose," Paul said. "We're not going to run in and bang our heads against the locker after a loss. We're going to stay loose."

Appreciating that mental outlook is Byrd, whose part of the equation Tuesday was six mostly solid, but other times shaky innings. The right-hander ran his modest winning streak to two straight starts, but his eight hits had him pitching defensively in stretches.

"I was a little frustrated that I gave those runs back," Byrd said. "I feel way too good to give up three runs in six innings."

Byrd faced the minimum in the first, but had baserunners on in each of his innings thereafter. After Paul's homer in the fifth, Byrd retired Travis Hafner and Ben Broussard on fly balls, but Crisp doubled, Grady Sizemore hit an RBI triple and only the fact that Aaron Boone's line shot was hit right at shortstop Orlando Cabrera prevented the Indians from tying the game.

"I got a two-run cushion and I get two quick outs and I make it a one-run cushion," Byrd said. "I have to be better than that."

But after scoring just two runs in their last three games, there were more positives to be had than negatives.

"There are some things that have to be a part of our game that are falling by the wayside," Scioscia said. "But we swung the bats well tonight."








