
CINCINNATI -- Count Reds leadoff man Scott Hatteberg, having spent three days engaging the American League West-leading Angels, among the duly impressed.
"They've got the best one-two punch out of the bullpen, the best starting pitchers in baseball -- and everything to go with it," said Hatteberg, who matched his career high with four hits on Thursday in a losing cause.
The Angels rallied from a two-run deficit with a six-run seventh inning to subdue the Reds, 9-7, taking two of three at Great American Ball Park.
The Angels are 7-2 in Interleague Play heading into a three-game weekend series at Dodger Stadium against the Dodgers.
Since May 9, the Angels have been on a 25-9 tear that is the best in the Majors. Their 42-25 mark represents the best start in franchise history.


Bartolo Colon (6-2) got back in the win column after three rough outings. He was rolling until a pair of homers -- Ken Griffey Jr.'s 579th career shot and a two-run blast by Alex Gonzalez -- gave the Reds a 5-3 lead in the sixth.
That's when the Angels presented Colon with a parting gift in the form of six runs, rallying against starter Homer Bailey and relievers Gary Majewski and Mike Stanton.
Working Bailey, impressive in his second Major League start, for consecutive walks, Reggie Willits and pinch-hitter Erick Aybar started the uprising.
Chone Figgins' single to left, extending his hitting streak to 13 games, loaded the bases against Majewski, and Orlando Cabrera's bases-loaded walk forced home the first run. Vlad Guerrero smoked a two-run single to right-center, and the Angels were back in front.
After Gary Matthews Jr.'s sacrifice fly, RBI singles by Casey Kotchman and Jose Molina provided an advantage that Darren Oliver, Scot Shields and Francisco Rodriguez tenaciously protected for Colon.
Kotchman had three hits and Molina two, extending his hitting streak to eight games as he joined Matthews and Cabrera in stealing a base. Guerrero's three RBIs gave him seven in two games and 61 for the year, second in the AL.
"When we're going good," manager Mike Scioscia said, "that's the type of lineup we have. We have to be more than the middle of the lineup, and the past month we have been."
The Reds, however, didn't go quietly.
After they'd scored once in the seventh, Shields finally slamming the door, Griffey stepped in to face Rodriguez in the ninth, representing the potential tying run with runners at second and third and one out.
Griffey worked the count to 3-1 before K-Rod hit the outer part of the plate with a slider. Junior rolled over and grounded to first, a run scoring.
Up came Adam Dunn, with three singles and power to hit the ball into the Ohio River. Down 0-2 in the count, then 1-2, Dunn couldn't hold back on a slider in the dirt, and the game and series had ended.
The save was No. 21 for K-Rod in 22 chances, with Shields once again doing yeoman's work in front of him.
Having worked two innings less than 24 hours earlier, Shields got the last out in the seventh after issuing an RBI single to Dunn and then worked a perfect eighth.
That was a relief, but the best part of this game from Scioscia's viewpoint -- apart from the lucky seventh -- was Colon's snap, crackle and pop.


Complete coverage &gt;  



"I thought Bart's stuff was good and his command was better," Scioscia said. "A couple of balls got away from him up [the homers by Griffey and Gonzalez], but for the most part, the ball was coming off his hand great."
It also was moving, especially the two-seam fastball that is such an essential part of Colon's arsenal.
Colon's six strikeouts in the first three innings all were called third strikes, a clear indication of the movement in his two-seamer, catching inside corners against left-handed hitters and finding outside corners against right-handers.
"He was hitting his spot," said Molina, who called Colon's pitches. "That's his out pitch, the two-seamer; it dictates how the game's going to go. If that pitch is working, it makes him comfortable. He looked real comfortable today.
"He needed it -- not to prove anything, but to get back on track, where he was."
Colon was 5-0 after six starts. But his ERA elevated along with his pitches, from 3.69 to 5.70, as he yielded 18 earned runs and 28 hits in 14 2/3 innings preceding Thursday's start.
His performance this time was much better than the raw numbers -- five runs, four earned, on seven hits and one walk in six innings -- suggest.
"I made an adjustment to pitch down in the zone," Colon said through translator Jose Mota. "I was able to bend down a little more and finish off pitches with my follow-through."
Long-toss sessions between starts with reliever Hector Carrasco and bullpen coach Steve Soliz enabled him to get stretched out, Colon added.
Dunn's bloop RBI single gave the Reds a first-inning lead, but the Angels scored twice in the second on Matthews' walk and successive singles by Howie Kendrick, Molina and Willits.
Cabrera doubled, stole third and scored on Guerrero's sacrifice fly in the third for a 3-1 lead. The Reds collected an unearned run in the fifth before Griffey went deep to center and Gonzalez lifted one inside the foul pole in the sixth.
Matthews tried to climb the wall to reach Griffey's blast, but there was no highlight-reel catch this time.
"I thought I had a shot," Matthews said, "but when I got to the wall, I could see it was out of my reach."
Soon, the Angels would turn on the afterburners and be out of the Reds' reach.






