
ANAHEIM -- Jim Thome was batting .199 as he stepped in, having gone hitless in his previous 13 at-bats.

In light of his 514 career homers -- to say nothing of his history of savoring and taking full advantage of The Big Moment -- this made Thome officially the most dangerous .199 hitter on the planet with a runner in scoring position in the ninth inning at Angel Stadium.

Sure enough, Francisco Rodriguez left a pitch up in the strike zone, and Thome delivered. His single to right-center produced the decisive run in Thursday night's 4-3 White Sox victory over the Angels in front of 41,444 fans.

"Whether he's hitting .200 or .400," Jon Garland said of Thome, his former teammate, "he's capable of hitting the ball out of the park."

He didn't leave the yard this time, but he did enough to ring up career RBI No. 1,421 and salvage a split of the four-game series for Chicago.

"You have to credit them," a gracious Thome said in the afterglow, "because you have to bring you're a game whenever you play them. They pitch well and have a good offense, so to come out with a split was huge.

"It shows a lot about our club, coming back against one of the best closers in the game."

It was a non-save situation for K-Rod, who leads the Majors with 16 saves. In contrast, former Angels prospect turned star White Sox closer Bobby Jenks notched his eighth save by turning away the Angels in order in the ninth after Thome's stroke of fortune on a 1-0 delivery.

"He made some good pitches," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said of K-Rod, who fell to 0-1. "Sometimes the other guy hits you."

A.J. Pierzynski doubled leading off against Rodriguez, moving to third when Reggie Willits robbed Carlos Quentin at the wall in center. After Jermaine Dye popped up, it was Thome time, and he produced with two outs.

The win went to Octavio Dotel (2-2) in relief of Javier Vazquez, who yielded three runs (two earned) in 6 2/3 innings.

In his first appearance against the club he helped create and celebrate a World Series championship in 2005, Garland made it through six innings, giving up three earned runs. There was anxiety, he admitted, before he went to work, but that's nothing extraordinary.

"I have those nerves every time I step on the mound," Garland said.

He lasted six innings, which was saying something after the mess he got involved in during the three-run second.

The Sox had scored three times on two singles, a double and a sacrifice fly, and there was Thome with a chance to bust it wide open with the bases loaded and two outs.

Working the count full, Garland floated a changeup that Thome tapped to second base.

"I'd rather give up one run than four," Garland said. "I let him be aggressive. If I walk him, it's better than him hitting it out of the park."

Garland, who had a string of 15 consecutive scoreless innings snapped in the second, didn't agree with the notion that he'd done a nice job of damage control.

"I thought they were lucky to get three," he said, citing two close calls on the basepaths favoring Juan Uribe as helping the Sox immeasurably.

Pierzynski, Garland's former batterymate in Chicago, went 3-for-5 with a pair of doubles, scoring a run and driving in another. He was an Angels nemesis throughout the series with seven hits, four runs scored and two RBIs.

"After that second inning," Pierzynski said of Garland, "he pitched pretty darn good."

Scioscia bemoaned the absence of consistent offense during a rough patch for the Angels, who have dropped six of their past eight games heading into Interleague Play against the Dodgers this weekend at Angel Stadium.

"We're searching for continuity," Scioscia said. "We're going to have a good offensive team. It's a lull we're in. It just means we have to execute better. We have to hit better with runners in scoring position."

The Angels seized a 2-0 lead in the first. Singles by Maicer Izturis and Vladimir Guerrero set up sizzling Garret Anderson, who responded with an 0-2 single to right, cashing in Izturis and sending Guerrero to third.

Casey Kotchman's two-out RBI double past third delivered Guerrero, but Erick Aybar flied out to leave two runners in scoring position.

The Angels had a chance to regain the lead in the third after Anderson's second hit and a hit batsman (Kotchman), but Vazquez escaped by retiring Aybar on a grounder.

Izturis' infield hit and Guerrero's booming double to center ended Vazquez's night with two outs in the sixth. Ranging to his left, third baseman Joe Crede couldn't handle Anderson's two-hopper against lefty reliever Matt Thornton, enabling the Angels to tie it at 3.

It remained that way until K-Rod faced Thome, who showed why he's been one of the most feared hitters in the game for a long time.






