
TEMPE, Ariz. -- A pair of Angels relief pitchers -- Scot Shields and new teammate Brian Fuentes -- will be wearing the red, white and blue again in the World Baseball Classic.

Shields and Fuentes, who performed in the inaugural Classic in 2006, were among the 28 players selected to the Team USA roster. Seven other members of the Angels organization appear on Classic rosters.

A third member of the Angels' deep bullpen, Jose Arredondo, will be throwing bullets for the Dominican Republic, while newly acquired outfielder Bobby Abreu once again will represent his native Venezuela.

The second edition of the 16-team World Baseball Classic, which opened to widespread acclaim in 2006, will begin March 5 and end in Los Angeles on March 23 with the finals at Dodger Stadium. All 39 games are slated to be televised this year by ESPN and MLB Network, including 16 on the Network.

Along with Shields, Fuentes, Arredondo and Abreu, the Angels are sending infielder Freddy Sandoval and pitcher Francisco Rodriguez to Team Mexico, with reliever Rich Thompson (Australia), shortstop Hainley Statia (Netherlands) and infielder Kevin Ramos (Panama) also taking part in the international festival of baseball.

Angels first-base coach Alfredo Griffin will perform that role for the Dominican Republic.

"Playing in the [inaugural] Classic was one of the greatest thrills of my career," said Shields, the Angels' durable setup man. "I remember looking around the [clubhouse] at all those great players and thinking, 'Man, what am I doing in here?' It was amazing to see all those guys, and then to go out and play with them.

"I'd love to have that experience of representing my country again. The only thing we'd like to do different this time is win it."


ul.pool {margin:5px 0;padding:0;list-style-type:none;width:100px;float:left;}
ul.pool li {font-size:11px;}
ul.pool li.poolname {font-weight:bold;}

2009 Rosters

&bull; All Players | By MLB Club

Pool A
&bull; China
&bull; Chinese Taipei
&bull; Japan
&bull; Korea


Pool B
&bull; Australia
&bull; Cuba
&bull; Mexico
&bull; South Africa


Pool C
&bull; Canada
&bull; Italy
&bull; USA
&bull; Venezuela


Pool D
&bull; Dominican Republic
&bull; Netherlands
&bull; Panama
&bull; Puerto Rico


&bull; Schedule, TV info &raquo;



Japan claimed the inaugural Classic, defeating Cuba in the championship game at San Diego's PETCO Park.

Shields and Fuentes -- who recently signed a two-year free-agent contract with the Angels including an option for a third year -- excelled in the 2006 Classic. Both relievers appeared in three of Team USA's six games while yielding one hit apiece and no runs, Shields striking out two men in 3 2/3 innings while Fuentes fanned three in 2 1/3 innings.

"I'm thrilled to be representing my country," Fuentes said. "It's going to be an incredible experience, and I'm looking forward to it. We'll score runs, but we also need a well-rounded pitching staff. The bullpen will need to come through. It's going to be important."

Fuentes and Shields are among eight relievers on the staff, with Joe Nathan expected to close. Fuentes is one of three lefties at manager Davey Johnson's disposal.

Angels players who declined offers to play in the Classic included starters John Lackey and Joe Saunders for Team USA and Ervin Santana (Dominican Republic), catcher Mike Napoli (Italy), infielder Maicer Izturis (Venezuela) and outfielders Vladimir Guerrero (Dominican Republic) and Juan Rivera (Venezuela).

The American team will assemble with Johnson and his coaching staff in Clearwater, Fla., on Monday. The team's first tournament game is set for March 7 against Canada at Toronto's Rogers Centre. Those two countries will be in Pool C along with Venezuela and Italy.

The first round opens March 5 in Tokyo, with defending 2006 champion Japan facing China. Mexico City, Toronto and San Juan, Puerto Rico, host the other three first-round brackets, as follows:

&#149; Tokyo (March 5-9): Japan, China, Chinese Taipei and Korea

&#149; Toronto (March 7-11): USA, Canada, Venezuela and Italy

&#149; San Juan (March 7-11): Puerto Rico, Dominican Republic, Netherlands, Panama

&#149; Mexico City (March 8-12): Mexico, Cuba, South Africa, Australia

It's a double-elimination format this time in the first two rounds. The winners from Toronto will meet the winners from Puerto Rico in the second round at Miami's Dolphin Stadium, while the winners from Tokyo will meet with the winners from Mexico City at PETCO Park.

The semifinals and finals are on March 21 and 23 at Dodger Stadium.

Before the Classic opens, Team USA will have tuneups against the Yankees in Tampa on March 3, the Blue Jays in Dunedin on March 4 and the Phillies in Clearwater on March 5.

Team USA was eliminated in the second round in 2006, the level of competition clearly reflecting how international America's national pastime has become.






