
The following is the second in a series of weekly stories on MLB.com examining each Major League club, position by position. Each week until Spring Training camps open, we'll preview a different position. Today: Corner infielders.

ANAHEIM -- The traditional profile of corner infielders -- big, brawny bashers not especially light on their feet -- does not fit the Angels.

Rebuffed in their efforts to acquire Miguel Cabrera from the Marlins, the reigning American League West champs plan to go once again with speed and defense at first and third, leaving the muscular power hitters to others.

The speed will come from Chone Figgins at third base, with Casey Kotchman delivering a caliber of defense that few clubs can match at first.

Together, Figgins and Kotchman won't rack up home runs in numbers generated by corner infielders in other locales, but that doesn't mean they won't produce runs.

"Our offense took off [in 2007] when Chone got healthy, when he started getting on base and opening things up for us," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "Our offense was the best it was when we had one through nine, all the pieces, working. There was one big bat in the lineup: Vlad [Guerrero]. We were averaging about six runs a game in May through June.

"Chone was a huge part of that offensive continuity, and so was Kotch. Casey's going to be a highly productive offensive player, possibly a 100-RBI guy -- not with home runs, necessarily. But if you look at the number of balls he squared up, he's close to Vlad. He's a good hitter."

Figgins led the Majors in on-base percentage from the leadoff spot last season, reaching base at a .415 clip while hitting a career-best .330, sixth in the American League.

Kotchman was on his way to a career year when he was derailed by injuries, but he still finished with a .296 average and career highs in doubles (37), homers (11) and RBIs (68). His .372 on-base percentage was third-best on the club after Vladimir Guerrero's .403 and Figgins' .393.

A left wrist injury sustained on Aug. 21, requiring surgery after the season, dogged Figgins down the stretch and during the three-game sweep by Boston in the AL Division Series.

"It was hard to keep both hands on the bat," Figgins admitted when it was over. "You leave it all on the field; that's all you can do. Boston just beat us. You can give thousands of reasons why they won, but it doesn't really matter.

"We have a good team. We didn't have our guys on the field. That's not an excuse; it's a fact. It happened. You don't have your guys on the field, it's hard to beat a team like Boston."

Kotchman was forced to watch the final two games of the series from a hospital bed, taken down by an illness in Beantown as the series unfolded. Gary Matthews Jr. missed the entire series with a knee injury, while Guerrero and Garret Anderson were far from healthy.





Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim


&bull; Catchers: Napoli back from injury
&bull; Corner IF: Unconventional on corners
&bull; Middle IF: Young duo up the middle
&bull; Outfielders: A star-studded mix
&bull; Starters: Angels' staff even deeper
&bull; Bullpen: K-Rod anchors top 'pen
&bull; DH/Bench: Embarrassment of riches





"It seems like it was a season of getting in a groove and then having to start all over," Kotchman said. "We ran into a lot of obstacles you can't anticipate."

The season had begun with Figgins, the Angels' catalyst, idle. Forced to adjust to fractures in the tips of the first two fingers on his throwing hand, "Figgy" missed a month, struggled when he returned and then took flight, setting the offense in motion with his energy, legs and a succession of line drives to open spaces.

He might not be Brooks Robinson with the glove, but Figgins covers ground and makes the plays. His substandard .943 fielding percentage in 2007 can be traced in large part to the lingering issues with his throwing hand. Healthy, he figures to see an improvement.

In support of Figgins at third are sure-handed Maicer Izturis, versatile Robb Quinlan, promising Brandon Wood and Matt Brown. It is a capable group, having shown that while sharing the job in '07.

There was nothing at all wrong with Kotchman's defense. He plays with the aggressive, confident style of a Keith Hernandez or Don Mattingly.

In a statistical study of glove men by John Dewan, author of "The Fielding Bible," only the Cardinals' Albert Pujols was found to be superior at first to Kotchman, who committed only three errors for a .997 fielding percentage.

Like Figgins, Kotchman was derailed twice by injuries, making it difficult to sustain a solid offensive groove.

At 24, Kotchman appeared to have settled in as a reliable offensive force in mid-June when he was struck in the helmet by a pickoff throw from Dodgers catcher Russell Martin. Kotchman -- among the AL's top 10 in batting average, slugging and on-base percentage at the time -- sustained a concussion and was treated with three stitches behind his right ear.

When he returned to action, Kotchman wasn't the same. Struggling to regain his equilibrium and stroke, he watched his numbers tumble. Another incident proved debilitating: A cut fastball by Yankees closer Mariano Rivera on Aug. 22 caused a hand injury that Kotchman overcame with a solid September (.299).

The injuries deprived him of his power, with nine of Kotchman's 11 homers coming before the All-Star break.

The Angels feel they are well protected behind Kotchman with Kendry Morales, a switch-hitter whose bat showed some serious pop from the left side, and Quinlan, a .290 career hitter who is looking to bounce back from a disappointing (.247) 2007 season.

Morales, at 24 (four months older than Kotchman), made the most of his 119 at-bats with the Angels, hitting .294 with four homers and 15 RBIs. His .479 slugging mark was surpassed only by Guerrero's .547 and Anderson's .492 among teammates.

The Angels are hoping the versatile Quinlan recaptures his 2006 form, when he had a .491 slugging percentage while batting .321. He struggled in the second half, batting .205 after carrying a .280 average into the All-Star break.






