
ANAHEIM -- It wasn't supposed to be like this.

The Angels fell a few games shy of the World Series a year ago and this season was meant to be one of adjustments and refinements, a reloading of sorts en route to a third straight crown in the American League West.

But as the season nears the quarter pole, the Angels have a clear view of the field because it's out in front of them.

That's right; the Angels are in last place.

"We struggled in a few areas lately," manager Mike Scioscia said after a recent loss.

A number of those areas were designed as strengths. Starting pitching, the bullpen and defense all rated high during the spring and were projected to stabilize the team and make up for any deficiencies on the offensive end.

Even the offense, which is designed as more fast-break than half-court, was seen as sufficient, especially with an emphasis placed on preventing runs.

The numbers have not met their projections, though, and the club is in a position relatively unknown in the Scioscia era. No Scioscia-managed Angels team has finished last.

What has gone right:
What is currently working for the Angels is on the pitching staff, and central to that is the return of Kelvim Escobar to the rotation.

The right-hander suffered through a frustrating season in 2005 when he made three trips to the disabled list. He is back in the rotation this season where he has fought through a split nail on the middle finger of his right hand and a blister on the same finger.

Escobar is adjusting well as he transitions back into a starting role, and he has flashed the skills that some believe can make him one of the league's dominant pitchers.

"When he's on, he's on. He's one of the top ones out there," said Blue Jays manager John Gibbons after Escobar held Toronto scoreless for 6 2/3 innings on May 6.

John Lackey joins Escobar as an Angels starter likely to provide a quality outing. Lackey's record of 3-3 is more reflective of run support than it is with his ability to shut down the opposition. In his three losses, Lackey has allowed 11 earned runs but was backed by only two. He's allowed two earned runs or fewer in five of eight starts and is sixth in the AL in strikeouts.

The back end of the bullpen has also performed as expected. Francisco Rodriguez has converted 10 of 11 save opportunities and established a new franchise mark when he earned his 22nd consecutive save earlier this season.

Scot Shields has posted an 0.92 ERA in 16 relief appearances this season while holding opponents to a .138 batting average.

At the plate, Vladimir Guerrero could qualify as a one-man band. At .324, he is the only hitter in the lineup with an average over .300, and he leads the team with nine homers and 31 RBIs. Orlando Cabrera is performing better than expected at this juncture.

Normally a better second half player, the Angels shortstop is hitting .275 while leading the team with 10 doubles, is second with 12 walks and is tied with Garret Anderson for second with 23 RBIs.

What has gone wrong:
Injuries have sent six players to the disabled list -- Bartolo Colon, Darin Erstad, Casey Kotchman, Juan Rivera, Maicer Izturis and Chris Bootcheck -- with only Rivera back in the lineup.

The injury to Colon has been the most costly, depriving the Angels of an ace at the front end of the rotation. Colon has not pitched in a month with inflammation in his right shoulder. He suffered a slight tear last October and rehabbed during the offseason, but pitched in the World Baseball Classic.

Colon has said the Classic had nothing to do with his recent injury, but the Angels rotation is not the same without him. Hector Carrasco and Kevin Gregg have started in his place with a combined record of 1-3 and a 6.47 ERA.

"We need that presence at the top of our rotation; he is our horse," Scioscia said. "But we need all five guys to be stoppers if we're going to reach our goal."

Jeff Weaver was intended to be one of those five stoppers when the Angels signed him to a one-year deal in February. The right-handed veteran, though, is 1-6 with a 7.40 ERA and has done little to hold up his end of the rotation.

Most troubling for the Angels and their current state of affairs is the offense that is 12th in batting average, 12th in runs scored, 12th in slugging percentage and last in on-base percentage.

"The biggest area of concern has been the inconsistency of our offense," general manager Bill Stoneman said. "We've had some injuries there, but we haven't generated to this point that we thought we would."

They've scored three or fewer runs in 12 of their last 22 games, and despite scoring 24 runs in posting a modest two-game winning skein recently, they managed just eight runs in the succeeding two games as they were outslugged by the Mariners.

"I thought we were turning the corner a couple of days ago," Adam Kennedy said. "But we keep running into teams that are playing well."

The club is also uncharacteristically 10th in fielding percentage.

What's next:
The Angels tried to lure Paul Konerko during the offseason to boost the offense, but the first baseman opted to remain in Chicago. That turned attention inward and many of those solutions have begun to play out.

When healthy, Rivera has shown signs of providing some power to the lineup. In 17 games, the outfielder/DH is hitting .268 with three homers and 13 RBIs but others have yet to pick up the slack.

Kotchman, whose presence at first moved Erstad back to the outfield, posted a .152 average with one homer and six RBIs in 29 games before being placed on the DL with a viral infection. Dallas McPherson opened his season at Salt Lake with 22 strikeouts in his first 35 at-bats. Since his callup to the Angels on May 9 to replace Kotchman on the roster, McPherson has yet to have an extra-base hit.

The Angels even plucked Howie Kendrick out of the Minors, but the second baseman went 3-for-26 and was sent back to Salt Lake in a swap for shortstop Erick Aybar.

All of which points to a trade as the most likely place to find help, but it is not a buyer's market with the trading deadline still several weeks away.

"We're always looking, and if the right deal presents itself that doesn't hurt our team on balance, then we'll do it," Stoneman said. "But the impact player is not available right now, and I haven't talked to anyone who would be an impact player."

The best news for the Angels then is that most of the season is still to be played, but they also must figure a way to stay in the race, because one key horse in the field, the Oakland A's, have proven to be one of the best closing teams in baseball.






