
ANAHEIM -- Forty-two days after going on the disabled list, Dallas McPherson finally knows what's wrong. All the Angels need to do now is decide what to do about it.

"I have what they call an impingement in my hip; basically it's a bone spur," the third baseman said. "We're going for a second opinion. The one doctor recommends surgery to go in and shave if off and repair the labrum and the cartilage. We're talking to the doctors about being able to play through it."

McPherson was in Vail, Colo., on Tuesday and Wednesday to see Dr. Marc Philipon, a hip specialist. Philipon diagnosed an impingement and suggested surgery would be needed before McPherson could play again. The Angels plan to send McPherson to at least one more specialist to explore whether playing with the injury might be possible.

"In speaking with [team orthopedist Dr. Lewis] Yocum, it's been discussed, but I think there's as much chance he won't as chance he will," manager Mike Scioscia said of McPherson having surgery. "They just have to get as many opinions as they can and make a decision."

McPherson missed the first two weeks of the season with a herniated disk in his back, which Philipon told him was likely related to the impingement in his hip, rather than being a stand-alone back problem. McPherson considered this encouraging news for his long-term health.

As for the hip, it's a question of when, rather than if, McPherson will need surgery. If the Angels' medical staff receive assurance that McPherson can continue to play without risking further damage to his health, the operation might be tabled until the offseason.

"Really, the only way to fix it is to go in and sand it down," McPherson said.

Until then, McPherson endures daily pain simply from carrying out normal activities. He's willing to endure much more pain, though, if the doctors will clear him to play.

"When I'm walking around, it's just more of a throb," he said, "but when I have to play third and squat and make explosive movements, that's when it starts to pinch the nerve."

It's not the most encouraging situation for McPherson, one of the Angels' best power hitters. Among Halos with more than 100 at-bats this season, McPherson ranks third with a .449 slugging percentage.

Anderson uncertainty: Garret Anderson, who had further tests done on his back Thursday, is still waiting for the results of the blood work that was done on him Wednesday, Scioscia said. However, while doctors haven't been able to actively treat the All-Star's pain in his sacroiliac joint, Anderson has slowly been improving on his own.

"Speaking with him, he's feeling a little better," Scioscia said.

On the right foot: The Angels lost back-to-back games Tuesday and Wednesday, but they should be in good shape for their series opener with Boston on Thursday. The Halos are 29-10 in the first game of a series this season.

The ultimate slam: Double-A Arkansas right fielder Tommy Murphy came to bat with the bases loaded and two outs in the bottom of the ninth Wednesday and the Travelers on the short end of 5-4 score. Murphy launched a game-winning grand slam, snapping a five-game losing streak for Arkansas.

On deck: Power-pitching fans will want to tune in at 7:05 p.m. PT Friday when John Lackey (10-4, 3.63 ERA) faces Boston's Matt Clement (11-3, 4.53 ERA). The two right-handers feature some of the best stuff in the American League and entered Thursday ranked second and sixth, respectively, in strikeouts per nine innings in the league.






