
ST. PETERSBURG -- In three days, the Angels went from a team leading the American League West to one out of playoff position completely.

The Angels fell, 2-1, in front of 13,703 at Tropicana Field on Sunday, getting swept three games by the Rays for the first time in team history in what was the team's fourth straight loss.

Meanwhile, Oakland has used a five-game winning streak to steal first in the West and the Yankees swept Kansas City to grab the lead in the race for the Wild Card spot.

"I didn't know that," said Angels starter Jarrod Washburn. The season "is not over today, so I don't care."

No, the year isn't over, and the Angels will have plenty of time to bounce back from a miserable series at Tampa Bay, beginning with a three-game series against the A's beginning on Tuesday at Angel Stadium.

Washburn, who came in 6-1 on the road this season, pitched well but couldn't get much support from the Angels lineup. One mistake early cost the left-hander his eighth win of the season.

After hitting Rays first baseman Eduardo Perez with a pitch in the second inning, Washburn threw a hanging slider to Aubrey Huff that the Rays right fielder deposited in the right-field seats.

"Pretty much all my pitches were working for me today," Washburn said. "Aside from one pitch, that's how my day went."

Washburn (7-8) gave up a pair of runs on five hits while striking out five and walking one in seven innings.

"He pitched a great game," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "Offensively, we didn't get anything going and every pitch is magnified. He didn't make many mistakes today at all. We just didn't pressure them enough offensively."

The Angels cut the lead in half in the sixth, when Orlando Cabrera hit his sixth home run of the year into the seats in left field.

Their best opportunity to tie came in the eighth, when Maicer Izturis singled to lead off the inning. No. 9 hitter Adam Kennedy bunted Izturis over to second, setting up the potential tying run in scoring position with one out.

But Chone Figgins grounded out to second baseman Jorge Cantu to move Izturis to third and Cabrera hit a sharp line drive that first baseman Perez easily snagged. 

Mark Hendrickson (8-7) got the win for Tampa Bay. He gave up one run on five hits in 7 2/3 innings. Closer Danys Baez got his career-high 31st save.

Scioscia hopes his team can pick it up the final month of the season.

"You have to play well enough to either absorb bad breaks or create your own breaks, and we did neither today," Scioscia said. "We haven't done it this series. They outplayed us. That's the bottom line and they deserved the streak. Needless to say, we need to pick up our game."







