
ANAHEIM -- An MRI taken on Garret Anderson's left knee revealed tendinitis, and the left fielder is listed as day-to-day. Manager Mike Scioscia opted to rest the veteran in Tuesday's matchup against the Athletics.



Anderson injured his knee when he made an outfield assist in the first inning of Sunday's Angels game against the Twins, throwing out Alexi Casilla, who tried to stretch a single into a double and was eventually tagged out in a rundown. But Anderson tweaked his patella tendon on the turn and throw to second and was replaced with Gary Matthews Jr. after the inning.



Anderson was held out of the starting lineup on Monday against the A's but pinch-hit for Robb Quinlan in the eighth inning, grounding out to first base.



Anderson is batting .284 with 13 home runs and 71 RBIs in 118 games and has turned it on in the second half as he is hitting .339 since the All-Star break.



"Garret's definitely available and hopefully he'll be in the lineup [Wednesday]," Scioscia said.



The once-deep outfield for the Angels was a bit thin on Tuesday against the A's as Vladimir Guerrero rested for the second consecutive day and Reggie Willits was still not activated from the disabled list.



But Guerrero is expected to be in the starting lineup on Wednesday and Willits is expected to be recalled as soon as the Angels bullpen gets some rest.



Willits was eligible to rejoin the team on Sunday but the Angels have yet to recall him because they need depth in their bullpen temporarily. Jason Bulger was called up Saturday instead and pitched a scoreless ninth inning on Tuesday.



"We'll evaluate this certainly in the short-term and see when Reggie will be activated," Scioscia said. "A lot of guys have pitched a lot of baseball. It's good to have that one arm in there. [Bulger] came in last night and did a good job of keeping us in there."



The Angels also had to deal with an injury to shortstop Erick Aybar, who had a stiff neck on Tuesday after diving headfirst awkwardly on Monday. Sean Rodriguez started at shortstop in his absence but Scioscia said he hoped Aybar would be back Wednesday.



"He's OK," Scioscia said. He's stiff in his neck and has a little limited motion in his neck so we want to get that out of there."






