
BOSTON -- Dramatically picking up the offensive pace, the Angels have averaged six runs per game in July while batting .287. Coming into a three-game series with the Red Sox starting Monday night, they'd produced 28 homers for the month in 21 games, with Torii Hunter, Casey Kotchman and Juan Rivera especially hot.

Howie Kendrick, the club's leading hitter for average at .338, is enjoying the recent surge, but finds one element missing -- praise for hitting coach Mickey Hatcher.

"When we're going through a bad stretch like we had earlier," Kendrick said, "Mickey gets all the blame when it's really not his fault at all. And then, when things start going well with the offense, you don't hear anybody talk about what a great job Mickey Hatcher is doing.

"To me, he gets a bad rap. He's always the same person. Any time you're struggling, he's got some insight, things he's seen on the side. He'll offer a suggestion, and it's up to you to take it. He's there every day, working with everybody.

"The thing about Mickey is that he's always positive, no matter how things are going. He's what you need from a hitting coach, whether it's the mental part or something technical. He's always a friendly, positive influence."

Hunter was under some fire in the media and talk shows earlier in the season when the Angels were scuffling for runs, but he kept the same relaxed, upbeat manner with his athletes.

"I remember we had a hitters' meeting when we had 47 wins," Hatcher said. "I told the guys, 'Hey, no matter what anybody says, you've been a better offense than the other team 47 times -- and we've faced some good offenses.' They liked that.

"Now, we have the best record in baseball, and I'd tell them the same thing. They've been better than the other team's offense 64 times."

Hatcher said he learned long ago, as a player, that hitting coaches generally don't attract much attention unless the offense runs dry. He tries not to take it personally, but he is, after all, human.

"During that one bad stretch we had this year," he said, "we had our two leadoff guys [Chone Figgins and Maicer Izturis] on the DL, and Howie on the DL, and then [Erick] Aybar also went on the DL. [Gary] Matthews was having his problems, and everyone knows about his [injured left] knee now. Plus, Vlad [Guerrero] was having a rough time.

"In spite of all that, we survived. We got the job done with great defense and pitching, and we got big runs when we needed them. As long as we play Angel baseball, we'll be fine. Our guys play the game."

Hatcher is the only hitting coach Mike Scioscia has had in his nine seasons at the helm -- the best nine-year run in franchise history.

"Mickey's a great guy and a winner," Kendrick said. "It's just too bad nobody ever gives him any credit."






