
Opening the season with three starting pitchers not expected to be in those roles until early May, best-case scenario, the Angels will be leaning on an offense that simply crushed baseballs all spring in Arizona, leading the Majors in batting average, slugging, on-base percentage and runs scored.

"I don't put much stock in spring statistics," manager Mike Scioscia said, embarking on his 10th season at the helm. "But I really like the way our guys approached their at-bats. They had a lot of discipline, a lot of quality at-bats. Our batter's box offense was impressive."






Club outlook



Select a team &not;
AL EAST &not;
Baltimore Orioles
Boston Red Sox
New York Yankees
Tampa Bay Rays
Toronto Blue Jays
--
AL CENTRAL &not;
Chicago White Sox
Cleveland Indians
Detroit Tigers
Kansas City Royals
Minnesota Twins
--
AL WEST &not;
Los Angeles Angels
Oakland Athletics
Seattle Mariners
Texas Rangers
--
NL EAST &not;
Atlanta Braves
Florida Marlins
New York Mets
Philadelphia Phillies
Washington Nationals
--
NL CENTRAL &not;
Chicago Cubs
Cincinnati Reds
Houston Astros
Milwaukee Brewers
Pittsburgh Pirates
St. Louis Cardinals
--
NL WEST &not;
Arizona D-backs
Colorado Rockies
Los Angeles Dodgers
San Diego Padres
San Francisco Giants






Game previews



Select a game &not;
--
SUNDAY &not;
Braves vs.
Phillies
--
MONDAY &not;
Mets vs.
Reds
--
Indians vs.
Rangers
--
Royals vs.
White Sox
--
Rays vs.
Red Sox
--
Rockies vs.
D-backs
--
Yankees vs.
Orioles
--
Nationals vs.
Marlins
--
Pirates vs.
Cardinals
--
Cubs vs.
Astros
--
Dodgers vs.
Padres
--
Tigers vs.
Blue Jays
--
Mariners vs.
Twins
--
Athletics vs.
Angels
--
TUESDAY &not;
--
Brewers vs.
Giants





Opening Day links
&#149; Full coverage
&#149; Probable pitchers
&#149; Schedule
&#149; Tickets
&#149; Watch on MLB.TV





With Mark Teixeira and Garret Anderson gone, the Angels are looking for big things from veteran Bobby Abreu and relatively untested Kendry Morales. They are expected to bat third and sixth, respectively, bringing some left-handed authority to a lineup heavy on right-handed thump.

With leadoff catalyst Chone Figgins poised for a big year -- his goal is to play all 162 games after two injury-interrupted seasons -- and Howie Kendrick capable of contending for a batting title, Abreu should have a lot of opportunities to reach his customary 100-RBI plateau.

Following surgery on his right knee, Vladimir Guerrero is intent on playing right field and running the bases with a burst he's been lacking the past two seasons.

Abreu's .405 career on-base percentage, on the heels of Figgins and Kendrick, should give Guerrero a shot at big numbers in what could be his final season with the Angels. Abreu's ability to drive pitchers to distraction with 10-pitch at-bats figures to assist in getting starters out of the game earlier than in the past.

Torii Hunter, chasing his ninth consecutive Rawlings Gold Glove, brings power and speed to the No. 5 spot behind Guerrero. And there's more muscle on the way behind Hunter with Morales, DH/left fielder Juan Rivera, versatile Gary Matthews Jr. and catchers Mike Napoli and Jeff Mathis.

Erick Aybar, who hit nothing but line drives all spring, and Maicer Izturis are expected to share shortstop again, and Brandon Wood's big spring showed he's capable of making an impact on the left side of the infield if the opportunity arises. Corner infielder Matt Brown is another power bat in reserve, waiting for the call.

Divisions aren't won in the first or second months of the season, but by June, the Angels should have their pitching staff in order. When that happens, they could be a lethal force in search of their fifth American League West title in the past six seasons.







Lackey

   
Calling card 
It might not be evident in the opening month or so, but by the time midseason rolls around, the Angels once again figure to be showcasing one of the game's premier rotations, backed by a deep, resourceful bullpen. If Kelvin Escobar and John Lackey return to their 2007 form, if Joe Saunders and Ervin Santana can replicate their All-Star campaigns, and if Jered Weaver rises consistently to his talent level, there won't be a deeper rotation in the game.

Achilles' heel 
The defense is anchored by one of the game's premier athletes, Hunter, in center field, but at other positions there are questions -- notably at first base, where Morales must replace a Gold Glove presence the Angels had there from both Casey Kotchman and Teixeira. Recurring injuries to infielders have created a lack of continuity in recent seasons, and that's something the Angels hope to cure. To protect themselves, however, they have unequaled depth.



Projected starting lineup
1. 3B Chone Figgins
2. 2B Howie Kendrick
3. LF Bobby Abreu
4. RF Vladimir Guerrero
5. CF Torii Hunter
6. 1B Kendry Morales
7. DH Juan Rivera
8. C Jeff Mathis/Mike Napoli
9. SS Erick Aybar/Maicer Izturis
Projected rotation (to start season)
 1. LHP Joe Saunders
2. RHP Dustin Moseley
3. RHP Shane Loux
4. RHP Jered Weaver
5. RHP Nick Adenhart
Projected bullpen
 Closer: LHP Brian Fuentes
Setup: RHP Scot Shields
Setup: RHP Jose Arredondo
Middle: LHP Darren Oliver
Middle: RHP Justin Speier
Middle: RHP Kevin Jepsen
Middle: RHP Jason Bulger


You'll know they're rollin' if...  
Figgins and Kendrick stay healthy and productive. They have the potential to be one of the game's best top-of-the-order tandems, Figgins with his ability to reach and motor around the bases, Kendrick with the ability to challenge for a batting title while driving doubles and triples into the gaps.


You'll know they're in trouble if... 
Lackey, Santana and Escobar aren't back in prime form by mid-May and closer Brian Fuentes doesn't deliver in the ninth inning in something resembling K-Rod style. The organization is loaded with so many athletes, it can handle the loss of a key position player -- or several.



Testing, testing 
Right out of the chute, the Angels get four home games against the Athletics, expected to be their prime division challengers with the arrivals of Matt Holliday and Jason Giambi, and then three against their perennial October nemesis from Boston. A season couldn't open with seven more intriguing games.


Interleague Play 
Along with their customary Freeway Series meetings with the Dodgers in May and June, the Angels will test the National League West with home dates against the Padres and Rockies and road series against the Diamondbacks and Giants. They'll play NL West teams exclusively from June 12 through June 28.


The Bottom Line 
A blazing start, given the shape of the rotation, isn't likely. The Angels don't expect any runaways in an improved AL West this season, and they might need to come from behind this time with a late push. But there's still no team in the division that can match their overall talent level and depth. They should claim their fifth division title in six years.






