
TEMPE, Ariz. -- Bartolo Colon's final spring tune-up opened with a whimper and closed with a roar.

Five straight singles and a fielding error by first baseman Kendry Morales led to three Cubs runs in the first inning. Even Chicago starting pitcher Carlos Zambrano reached base when he laid down a bunt to lead off the second.

But the reigning American League Cy Young winner wasn't hit hard, and he settled down to close with five scoreless frames. On Monday, Colon will make his sixth Opening Day start and third straight with the Angels when he faces Mariners left-hander Jamie Moyer in Seattle.

"It is always special to take the ball when your teammates and manager are counting on you to get things started," Colon said through an interpreter. "I always think when you make your first start, it is your Opening Day. But it will never be routine; it is always special."

Colon worked his fastball into the 93-94 mph range as he tried to establish location with some hitters. He used all of his pitches Wednesday without allowing a walk and striking out four.

"He threw some good breaking balls and some good changeups," manager Mike Scioscia said. "He had the two-seamer coming back over the corner. His command was where it needed to be."

New look: A combination of factors has raised the stock of Brendan Donnelly. The right-hander said he lost about 25 pounds and he no longer has a sore shoulder or sore elbow that bothered him at different times over the last year and a half.

Donnelly is 1-0 with a 2.00 ERA in nine relief appearances this spring and has been particularly successful with a two-seam fastball that he runs in on right-handed hitters.

"I think it will make him overall more effective," Scioscia said. "I think he feels good [enough] with his stuff now and some of the things he's doing that it will hopefully give him a little better margin of error."

Standing pat?: The Angels wouldn't mind breaking camp with a left-handed bat and have shown interest in acquiring Erubiel Durazo and David Newhan, among others, but so far the club is not close to making a deal.

"I talked to Bill [Stoneman] and I don't believe anything is imminent," Scioscia said of conversations with the Angels general manager. "I think the options we have in-house here are going to give us a strong presence and roles that will be defined and guys that can help us. Although he's always looking and talking, nothing that surfaced is going to make us a better ballclub."

Two options in camp to fill that role are Curtis Pride and Dallas McPherson, but neither player is taking hold of the job. Pride can play both corner outfield spots but he's hitting .216 with one extra base hit in 22 spring games while McPherson is hitting .205.

The bench likely will comprise a collection of right-handed hitters that includes Edgardo Alfonzo, Robb Quinlan, Maicer Izturis and possibly Tim Salmon.

"I think on paper when you look at the theory of putting a club together, it's always nice to have a lefty in the bullpen and have a balance off the bench," Scioscia said. "From a pragmatic standpoint it's not always possible, and maybe there are righties that fill a role more than a lefty you have. You can't always get to that philosophical club that is very balanced everywhere."

Down on the farm: MiLB.com has released its Top 50 Prospects, and three of them are from the Angels organization.

Shortstop Brandon Wood is No. 3, second baseman Howie Kendrick is No. 12 and shortstop Erick Aybar is No. 49.

Cactus stats: Casey Kotchman is hitting .447 with an OPS of 1.225 in 17 games this spring. The first baseman also leads the team with 15 RBIs. ... Vladimir Guerrero is hitting .500 with a 1.336 OPS and 11 RBIs in 16 games. ... Chris Bootcheck has allowed one run in 12 2/3 innings. ... McPherson has 13 strikeouts in 39 at-bats.

Sent down: Right-hander Bootcheck and outfielder Reggie Willits were reassigned to Minor League camp. There are now 34 players in camp.

Asides: Guerrero left camp after his workout Wednesday to return to California. He is scheduled to play Friday against the Dodgers. ... Wood hit a two-run, inside-the-park home run in the sixth inning Wednesday. It was his second spring homer. ... Mike Napoli doubled and homered Wednesday. ... Mickey Hatcher will be the manager in Tempe on Thursday with Scioscia heading to San Francisco in a split-squad game with the Giants.

On deck: Right-hander John Lackey is scheduled to face Brewers left-hander Chris Capuano in Tempe at 11:05 a.m. PT on Thursday, while right-hander Jered Weaver is slated to start against Giants right-hander Matt Morris in San Francisco at 7:05 p.m. PT. Jeff Weaver is scheduled to start in Dodger Stadium on Friday.









