
ANAHEIM -- Don't count any of the Angels as those disappointed the team stayed pat at Monday's non-waiver trade deadline.

All around the clubhouse, there was nothing but confidence that the team already has the offense and pitching in place to make a run at its third straight American League West title.

"It's hard to argue with what we got here," second baseman Adam Kennedy said. "We've been playing pretty good."

With an offensive resurgence, the Angels have been playing better than anyone else in baseball. Entering Monday with a 19-6 record in July, the Angels lead the Major Leagues in team ERA this month, as well as the American League in runs scored.

During the Angels' recent run as division champs, their offense has consistently been labeled their one weakness. No more was that evident than in last year's ALCS, when the Angels hit a collective .175 en route to losing the series in five games to the White Sox.

Even though the offense, fueled by Vladimir Guerrero, Juan Rivera and rookie Howie Kendrick, has hammered its way through July, general manager Bill Stoneman said he still would have been inclined to trade for a bat -- for the right deal.

"We wanted to if we could to strengthen our hitting, but not at the expense of wins and losses going forward," he said. "We didn't want to weaken our club just for the sake of getting a hitter."

With the way the Angels have performed at the plate lately, though, it makes the lack of a move that much easier to take.

"The big bats have emerged from within," manager Mike Scioscia said.

If those "big bats" don't fall into the doldrums they encountered early in the season, Stoneman said he feels that the Angels have the right pieces in place to compete for a postseason berth.

"The potential is good," he said. "As long as they play up to their potential. Some of the guys whose bats were a little more silent months back are starting to warm up a little bit."

Even the club's opposition on Monday knew, despite a deal, how good a team the Angels are.

"Easier to beat out? No way," said A's manager Ken Macha, whose team entered Monday with a half-game lead over the Angels. "They've won it the last two years with the personnel that they have out there."

Streaking: Kennedy singled his first time up to extend his hitting streak to 14 games, the longest by an Angel this season and the longest in his career by one game.

The second baseman, who has been sitting lately against left-handed pitchers in favor of Kendrick, hit .320 (16-for-50) during the first 13 games of the run. The streak comes after Kennedy struggled to a .228 average in May and June.

"You have to keep grinding away and work at it," Kennedy said. "It's now-or-never time. You have to fight your way through games and try to get big hits for your team."

During the team's 6-4 road trip, Kennedy hit .308 with five RBIs, including a three-RBI night in an 8-4 victory last Monday against the Devil Rays.

Saunders ready: Rookie Joe Saunders will be recalled from Triple-A Salt Lake to face the A's on Tuesday, taking the injured Bartolo Colon's spot in the rotation. Saunders has not pitched since July 24, when he lost to Tucson after allowing three earned runs on eight hits in eight innings.

The start is the second this year and fourth of the left-hander's career. Saunders picked up his first Major League victory on July 18 when he pitched seven innings and allowed two runs, one earned, against the Indians.

"I was real nervous [last year]," Saunders said. "This year I was more relaxed and more comfortable."

Effective before Tuesday's game, the Angels will option reliever Greg Jones back to Salt Lake to make room for Saunders.
Late night: The Angels arrived around 4:30 a.m. PT from their red-eye flight from Boston.

Most players had a chance to sleep on the plane after defeating the Red Sox, 10-4, in game that started at 8 p.m. ET. Because of the early-morning flight, they did not have to be dressed for stretching on Monday until 5 p.m. and did not take batting practice.

Scioscia said he only got two hours of sleep, waking up around 7:00 a.m. to be alert for any potential moves before Monday's trading deadline.

Quick hits: Scioscia said Colon, who has tendinitis in his right triceps, was feeling better and will throw later this week before pitching a bullpen session over the weekend. The team is targeting Aug. 11 against the Yankees in New York for his return. ... The Angels have had only three 20-win months in franchise history, the last coming in June of 1998. ... Rivera's 17 home runs this year are a career high by two.

On the farm: First baseman Kendry Morales hit two home runs and drove in five on Sunday to lead Salt Lake past Nashville, 7-2. ... Outfielder Pat Reilly had two hits and two RBIs in Class A Rancho Cucamonga's 10-6 loss to Lancaster. ... Center fielder Brad Coon stole his Midwest League-leading 40th base and pounded out two hits and two RBIs, but Class A Cedar Rapids lost to South Bend, 10-7.

On deck: Saunders will pitch Tuesday against right-hander Joe Blanton at 7:05 p.m. PT at Angel Stadium. The series finale will pit the Angels' Kelvim Escobar against Esteban Loaiza.






