
ANAHEIM -- Two swings, two runs, game over.

Vladimir Guerrero carried his club to a win Saturday afternoon with a pair of solo homers as the Angels upended the Marlins, 2-1, in 10 innings, the second straight extra-inning game in the Interleague series that concludes Sunday with the Angels looking to sweep.

Guerrero tied the game when he led off the bottom of the eighth with a drive to left-center on a 1-1 fastball from Marlins reliever Jim Mecir, and socked the game-winner to lead off the 10th on a 3-2 hanging slider from Todd Jones.

"It is a tremendous understatement to say how big that was," manager Mike Scioscia said. "Vlad led off with two homers late in the game. That is his talent."

It was Guerrero's first walk-off homer in an Angels uniform and the eighth of his career. It was the third walk-off blast for the club this season as Guerrero joined Orlando Cabrera and Dallas McPherson with game-winning homers.

The twin blows took Angels starter John Lackey off the hook. Lackey allowed a run over 6 2/3 innings for a no-decision. Esteban Yan pitched 1 1/3 scoreless innings of relief and Francisco Rodriguez (2-1) cleaned up with two shutout frames to pick up the win.

In the 10th, Guerrero took a pitch high and inside that bent him back to run the count full. The reigning American League MVP did not take exception to the brush-back pitch, but said it told him how Jones was going to pitch to him. He guessed right as the Angels ran their Interleague record this season to 9-5.

The slugger then stood at home plate and admired his shot as it cleared the left-field fence and landed in the bullpen, but added there was no underlying message.

"It was a matter of just reaction, not to show anyone up," Guerrero said through an interpreter. "The emotion of the game carried over."

A welcoming committee awaited Guerrero at home, but despite missing three weeks on the disabled list with a partially dislocated left shoulder, Guerrero had no problem with the pile-on that followed.

"At that point, they all could have jumped on my shoulders and that would have been fine," Guerrero said. "I didn't feel a thing."

Any leftover feelings were experienced by the Marlins, which were nothing short of a rude slap.

For the second straight game, Florida sent a starter to the hill who completely dominated the Angels. On Friday, it was Brian Moehler, who allowed one earned run, while Dontrelle Willis followed up Saturday with seven shutout innings.

Two starts, two runs over 15 1/3 innings and a pair of no-decisions is all the Florida rotation has to show for itself. On Sunday, veteran left-hander Al Leiter takes the ball in place of the injured Josh Beckett, who is on the DL with a blister.

The Angels hit Willis hard Saturday as the deceptive left-hander gave up 10 hits, but his defense played solidly behind him, turning a double play and producing a pair of head's-up assists from the outfield when the Angels tried to stretch a pair of singles.

In the bottom of the fifth, Chone Figgins led off the inning with a sharp hit to left, but Miguel Cabrera fired a strike to second baseman Luis Castillo to nail Figgins at second. With one down in the seventh, Adam Kennedy's single kicked off the leg of center fielder Juan Pierre and he appeared to beat the throw to second after Pierre ran the ball down, but Kennedy was called out for sliding off the bag.

Willis handled the rest. Out of 12 runners that reached base against Willis, none made it to third.

"He is as billed," Scioscia said. "This guy knows what he is doing out there. He has terrific stuff and he's a great competitor."






   Vladimir Guerrero  /    RF







Born: 02/09/76
Height: 6'3"
Weight: 220 lbs
Bats: R / Throws: R


More info:
Player page
Stats | Splits
Gallery 
Team Site | Shop




-->





Bridging the gap to Guerrero's heroics, though, was Lackey, who matched the efforts of Willis on Saturday afternoon.

Lackey did not allow a run through five innings and surrendered the Marlins' lone run when Castillo led off the sixth with a single and advanced to second on a wild pitch. After Cabrera singled to right with Castillo holding at third, Carlos Delgado hit an RBI single to left-center.

The Angels starter would uncork another wild pitch in the inning and walk Jeff Conine to load the bases, but a pop-up by Juan Encarnacion to Darin Erstad ended the inning.

"I was locating my fastball well. I was able to get it in on guys," Lackey said. "I made a couple of big pitches when I needed to to get outs."

Lackey tossed 118 pitches Saturday and kept his team in the game to continue a string of tough matchups. In his last two starts, Lackey has opposed Pedro Martinez and John Smoltz, and the Angels won both games.

"I thought that was encouraging about John," Scioscia said. "Even with a high pitch count he was able to maintain his stuff. That is what we need from all of our pitchers: bend, but don't break."

The Angels had an opportunity to end it in regulation when they loaded the bases in the bottom of the ninth with one out, but Erstad bounced into an inning-ending double play.

After Bengie Molina's pinch-hit double, the Marlins gambled with the infield in, but it paid off when Erstad's chopper was soft enough for Alex Gonzalez, who threw home for the first out and catcher Paul Lo Duca fired to first to complete the double play.

Erstad extended his hitting streak to 18 games with a third-inning single on Saturday.






