
Under normal circumstances, catchers aren't expected to do much more than handle the pitching staff. Anything else is simply icing on the cake.

But Oct. 5 at Fenway Park didn't present a normal circumstance for the Angels, who were trailing, 2-0, in the 2008 American League Division Series and were riding a nine-game postseason losing streak.

With that in mind, Mike Napoli wasn't a normal catcher.

On top of handling six pitchers who couldn't be more different in styles and personalities, Napoli contributed heavily with the bat and, ultimately, with his legs, scoring the go-ahead run en route to a 5-4, 12-inning win over the Red Sox to keep the Angels' season alive.

Every day from now to Spring Training, MLB.com/Live will air a classic game on Baseball's Best. The Angels' win over the Red Sox in Game 3 of the ALDS can be seen Saturday at 1 p.m. PT.

"Just a great night," Napoli said afterward. "It's what you ask for as a catcher -- to be able to handle your staff and help a little on the offensive side. That's a plus."

The Red Sox took a 3-1 lead in the bottom of the second off Angels starter Joe Saunders, who pitched a lot better than his line -- four runs in 4 2/3 innings -- would suggest. With the bases loaded and two outs, Jacoby Ellsbury lofted a fly ball to shallow center field. After some miscommunication between Torii Hunter and Howie Kendrick, the ball fell in, resulting in the first three-run single in postseason history.

"That's on me," Hunter said afterward. "I should have called him off and caught that ball.

"I feel bad about that, but there's no time for negative thoughts now. This team showed what it was all about tonight."

Nobody showed that more than Napoli.

In the top of the third, he blasted a two-run homer off Red Sox ace Josh Beckett to tie the score, then gave his team the lead with a solo shot two innings later -- though that was erased thanks to doubles by Ellsbury and Kevin Youkilis in the bottom half of the fifth.

After six straight scoreless innings, Napoli came through again in the 12th, when he led off the top half of the inning with a single off Javier Lopez, got to second on a sacrifice bunt by Kendrick, then motored home when young shortstop Erick Aybar delivered his first hit of the postseason -- a single up the middle.

"I'm glad I was able to do something to help," a modest Napoli said afterward.

But his job wasn't done. In the bottom half of the inning, he had to guide Jered Weaver to his second inning of relief -- a role he was pitching in for the first time since his junior year of high school.

Naturally, he did just that.

"That game was swinging on a heartbeat for most of the night," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said after his team's thrilling win, though the Angels would drop Game 4 at Fenway Park and lose the series.

"Nap had a couple of big hits for us, and he caught a great game."






