
ARLINGTON -- Second baseman Howard Kendrick said his strained left hamstring was feeling better Monday, but not good enough for him to return to the Angels' lineup nor guarantee he won't land on the disabled list because of the injury. 
Kendrick was hurt Sunday while running the bases in the seventh inning of the Angels' 10-5 victory over the Mariners. He clutched his leg just before reaching second base on his third hit of the game, one that boosted his batting average to .500 (18-for-36). It was just his second game back after missing three because of a jammed right thumb. 
"I actually feel better, so hopefully that's a good sign," Kendrick said after receiving pregame treatment Monday. "We're just doing everything you do for this -- heat, ice, try and strengthen it and the muscles around it." 
But Kendrick admitted he has no idea when he will be ready to play next, nor whether he can avoid his third trip to the disabled list in the past two years. 
"That's not a question for me," he said. "I can't make that decision. ... I can't tell you any set number of days it will take, because we don't know. Probably whenever I'm back out there, that's when I'll know." 
Manager Mike Scioscia indicated Kendrick will get four or five days to show the team he's on the verge of returning. Beyond that, it appears a roster move would be necessary to keep the team from playing shorthanded for more than a week. 
"We're going to give it a little time, to read in the next day or two which way it's going," Scioscia said. "Hamstrings are really a different animal and you really want to be cautious. Rush a guy back too soon, and next thing you know, he's on the disabled list. 
"We're hopeful he might be back out there in a reasonable amount of time. Sometimes it takes a guy a week, sometimes longer. We'll see." 
Backup infielder Maicer Izturis started in place of Kendrick in Monday's opener of a two-game series at Texas, but the .121 batting average he brought into the game is a concern. The Angels might shift Chone Figgins from third base to second during part of Kendrick's absence, and use Robb Quinlan at third. 
"We'll see how we move forward in the next day or two," Scioscia said.






