
SAN FRANCISCO -- The Angels have gone from first to worst in more ways than one this season.

After winning the American League West for the past two years, the club currently is bringing up the rear in the division. What is more perplexing, though, is the Angels are also last in defense.

The club has committed the most errors in the league (56 entering Monday) to generate the lowest fielding percentage, leading to 51 unearned runs, the most in the Majors. Last season, the Angels allowed just 45 unearned runs.

"The defensive chemistry just isn't there," manager Mike Scioscia said. "We played at an extremely high level last year. As a staff, we've turned it inside and out and we're surprised that it isn't more like it was last year."

Scioscia cited the loss of Darin Erstad in center field and Casey Kotchman at first base as key reasons, while also mentioning that Chone Figgins has been forced to move all around the diamond.

Orlando Cabrera is one player in particular who's been having issues in the field. The shortstop has already committed nine errors after making just seven last season.

"It seems like every time we make an error, whether it is with two out or none out, they score. It has been like that the whole year and that is why it is a big deal," Cabrera said. "It is a big deal because we're giving too many outs away and at the same time we're giving up tough errors. We make the pitchers get a level of frustration because pitch counts are elevated. We need to get better and work hard."

Cabrera said it is not a lack of practice, as the club works through a host of plays during batting practice every day. He pointed out a bigger problem, though: an offense, or lack thereof, that is magnifying everything.

"We could play the same defense that we played last year, but if we're not hitting we're not going to win," said Cabrera, who increased his streak of reaching base to 48 games with a first-inning walk Monday. "That is what I  believe."

Ailing: Erstad, who left Saturday's game with a irritated right ankle, was out of the starting lineup for the second straight day Monday. Erstad was sidelined by bone spurs in Spring Training and missed 37 games this season while on the disabled list with a sore ankle.

Erstad said he's trying to remain available to pinch-hit but is uncertain if another trip to the DL is imminent.




Complete coverage &gt;

"I don't know yet. I'll get a better read on it in a few days," Erstad said. "I just haven't been able to get started and get out there and get going. It is frustrating."

The club is also waiting to see how the next few days go.

"It certainly limits his ability to move around. If the ankle does not let him do the things to help the club and define a role, then maybe," Scioscia said. "But even if he can't get out there every day, that doesn't mean there isn't a role for him."

Movin' up: One method the Angels have been using to try to generate offense is to juggle the batting order. In Monday's series opener with the Giants, Mike Napoli became the 10th Angels hitter to bat in the five-spot.

"I think the first four guys [in the order] in some combination or another are doing a good job," Scioscia said. "If Tim Salmon is in the lineup as the DH, he is an option, but we're depending a lot on these young guys to give some depth in the lineup. Napoli has the patience and the ability to get on base and is a little ahead of those other guys."

Kendry Morales is one of the newer players to get a look in that slot, but he has only four hits in his last 33 at-bats and went 0-for-11 in the weekend series against the Padres. Napoli is in a 4-for-25 skid but has four homers and eight RBIs in his last 10 starts.

The last time: Aside from an exhibition appearance at AT&T Park at the end of Spring Training in March, the Angels last played the Giants here in Game 5 of the 2002 World Series. The Giants won that game, 16-4, to take a 3-2 series lead.

"We got skunked," Scioscia said. "But it was a great atmosphere. It was great to be a part of it."

On the farm: Brandon Wood was named to the North squad for the Texas League All-Star Game. Other Double-A Arkansas players named were right-handers Jesse Smith and Miguel Gonzalez and second baseman Eric Rodland, along with Travelers manager Tyrone Boykin.

On deck: The Angels will play the Giants in the second game of the series at 7:15 p.m. PT on Tuesday. Right-hander John Lackey will face San Francisco right-hander Matt Morris. Right-hander Jeff Weaver will start against the Giants on Wednesday afternoon.






