
ANAHEIM -- The errors remained, but on Saturday the Angels used a fluke play to scrape by the Padres.

A lucky inside-the-park home run is not exactly what manager Mike Scioscia was referring to when he noted that his offense needed to start producing to make some of his club's American League-high 55 errors seem less prominent. But, with his Angels still mired in last, he'll take victories any way he can.

The Angels' unconventional home run came in the sixth inning, breaking a tie and helped the club take down the Padres, 3-2, at Angel Stadium.

Dallas McPherson sliced a ball down the left-field line and rounded the bases, along with Juan Rivera, when Dave Roberts banged his kneecap into the concrete portion of the outfield wall. Roberts slid in an attempt to grab the drive and laid on the ground clutching his right knee for several minutes until he was carted to the locker room.

"[Roberts] gave everything he had to get to that ball," Scioscia said. "He almost got to it, and it's unfortunate he got hurt, but that's the way Dave plays the game."

McPherson said it was the first inside-the-park home run he's hit at any level.

"I'm not known for my speed," he said with a smile.

The play was remarkably similar to Vladimir Guerrero's inside-the-park home run last month. Orioles outfielder Jay Gibbons slammed into concrete in the right-field wall chasing down Guerrero's line drive. As McPherson did on Saturday, Guerrero came around to score as Gibbons was writhing in pain.

The Angels haven't had two inside-the-park home runs in one season since 1969.

"It's been a funny year," Scioscia said.  "We've seen so many strange things -- a lot of them have gone against us -- but you can go 10 years without seeing [an inside-the-park home run]."

The game-breaking hit came three batters after the Angels finally broke through against Padres starter Jake Peavy.  Garret Anderson ended the ace's shutout by hitting a solo home run to right, his seventh blast of the year.

Until that point, Peavy (4-8) had stymied Angels batters, allowing just two hits. He ended up finishing the game and allowed three runs on four hits with seven strikeouts.




Complete coverage &gt;



"Especially losing on a note like last night [in the ninth], it's good to come out and beat one of the better pitchers in baseball," McPherson said.

Saturday's starter Ervin Santana was up to the challenge of facing the Padres ace, who has recorded sub-3.00 ERAs the past two seasons.

The youngster allowed his only run in the first inning after Mike Cameron, who had doubled, came in to score when Brian Giles blooped a single to center. From that point on, Santana (7-3) allowed just one hit for his fifth straight quality start.

As it has been the case much of the year, though, errors again crept up and threatened to ruin another strong pitching performance.

Orlando Cabrera was unable to close out the eighth inning when his throw on a hard grounder by Cameron sailed toward the Padres dugout.  Giles followed with a double off reliever Scot Shields that cut the gap to 3-2, but Shields escaped the jam by inducing Mike Piazza to ground out.

Despite allowing their Major League-leading 49th unearned run, the Angels were able to escape with a victory, but barely.

Ironically, the club's defense ultimately saved the game in the top of the ninth when Francisco Rodriguez, pitching for the fifth time in six days, worked himself into a two-on, two-out situation.

McPherson made a backhanded grab on a hot grounder from Josh Barfield, then made a strong throw for the out.  The third baseman had to range far to his right to nab the ball, since he was playing more toward the hole to prevent a game-tying single.

"We cracked the door a little bit," Scioscia said.  "Outside of [Cabrera's error], we made plays we had to and we need that to support good pitching."

And good starting pitching is exactly what the Angels have been seeing lately.  A determined Santana gave the Halos their 20th quality start in the team's last 23 games.

"I gave up a run in the first inning," Santana said.  "And after that I said, 'No more runs.'  I kept the zero up there and we got the job done."

Angels center fielder Darin Erstad left the game in the fourth inning after re-aggravating his right ankle trying to chase down Cameron's double in the first.  He is day-to-day and said he would meet with Scioscia and trainers after the game to determine how long Saturday's setback would keep him out.

Scioscia said Rivera also tweaked his ankle during his first at-bat, but got it retaped so he could finish the game.  Rivera is not expected to miss any time in the field.






