
ANAHEIM -- After playing on the Metrodome's turf for nine full seasons with the Twins, Angels center fielder Torii Hunter is used to running on the hard playing surface.



But Angels manager Mike Scioscia decided that he would give Hunter rest after playing three games on the turf of Tampa Bay's Tropicana Field by making him the team's designated hitter on Friday against the Twins. Switch-hitter Gary Matthews Jr. started in center field against Twins left-hander Glen Perkins.



"Torii spent three days on that turf in Tampa and I think we just need to let his legs recharge a little bit," Scioscia said. "Gary is going to play center and he's been swinging the bat a little better from the right side."



Hunter, though, isn't fond of being the DH. He is hitting just .143 with no home runs and two RBIs in eight starts there. But he still agreed with Scioscia's decision, especially because the Angels are on an 11-game homestand.



"I don't like it, but I do understand days off, especially with someone like me who plays center field and runs around all the time," Hunter said. "And you still want to hit, but it's a good way to get off your legs and still be a part of the game."



Hunter said he learned how to handle not playing in the field from his former Twins teammate David Ortiz, who is arguably the game's most-feared DH as a five-time All-Star with the Red Sox.



"At first he would wear himself out by being on the bike," Hunter said. "But now, before he hits, he just focuses like he's been playing defense and relaxes the whole game. And then when it's time to hit, he just hits."



But Hunter said it's difficult for him to follow Ortiz's routine because he so badly wants to play center field when he's on the bench. He said his body even reacts from the bench on fly balls to the outfield.



"I have to do something to get loose and get myself going," Hunter said. "I just mess with everybody and I'm fidgety. I just take it out on the players. And the coaches, too."






