
ANAHEIM -- The starter and the reliever stood side by side, mirroring the position of their respective lockers, stern looks of determination etched on their respective mugs. They stood half-dressed in silence, awaiting the guitar riff that would cue the antics to come.

"Yeaaaaaaaaaah! Yeh-yeh Yeaaaaaaaaaah!"

Wait for it ...

"Yeh-yeh Yeaaaaaaaaaah!"

Not yet ...

"Yeh-yeh Yeaaaaaaaaaah!"

Here it comes ...

"Tuh-tuh totally dude!"

Go!

Moments before taking the field to close out a three-game series against Kansas City Wednesday, Angels starter Jered Weaver -- the right-hander scheduled to take the mound that afternoon -- and reliever Dustin Moseley displayed the dexterity (sort of) they possess in their other limbs.

Trading the high-priced arms they flaunt so masterfully on a baseball diamond for the opportunity to show off the dancing prowess in the limbs below their waists, the pair put on a show for a group of amused reporters as the Shop Boyz's "Party Like a Rock Star" blared from the clubhouse speakers.

"Party like a rock, party like a rock star. Party like a rock, party like a rock star. Party like a rock, party like a rock star. Party like a rock star. Tuh-tuh totally dude!"

It wasn't pretty, but it was pretty entertaining.

Their manager, Mike Scioscia, emerged from his office baffled by the music invading his ears -- perhaps even more so by the impromptu performance -- as it swirled about the clubhouse.

"Jered, is this you?" Scioscia asked while pointing to the clubhouse stereo. "What is this?"

"Party Like A Rock Star," Weaver answered mid-twist, the cap on his head turned backward. "Don't worry about it."

"He must've gone in my car and got it right out of my CD player," Scioscia later joked. "That's terrible. And you can put that in the paper."

The pregame dance routine apparently remedied the ailing right shoulder and strep throat that kept Weaver from toeing the rubber for 11 days. Through seven innings, he allowed a single run on four hits in a losing effort. Not to be outdone, Moseley tossed two near-flawless innings to end the contest, surrendering only one hit.

But the hip-hop music that inspired the spontaneous display is as permanent a fixture in the Angels' clubhouse as the players, coaches and physicians that frequent its haunts.

Perhaps as much a result of superstition as the listening pleasure it supplies, each home win this season -- 29 so far and counting -- has been accented by postgame hip-hop music courtesy of a player-created CD. As if presented as a non-negotiable stipulation on each team member's contract, this lively mix of the summer's most celebrated anthems begins as soon as the first Angel closest to the PLAY button presses fingertip to stereo.

The mix, including tracks from Akon, Swizz Beatz and T-Pain, begins with Rich Boy's "Throw Some D's On It," an ode to extravagant rims placed on equally extravagant automobiles -- quite a fitting parallel for the club with one of the gaudiest number of wins in the Majors.

But not every member of the Angels is particularly enthused by this mix. While maintaining that he is indeed a fan of the genre, reliever Chris Bootcheck waxes nostalgic for the glory days of Hip-Hop Past -- the days defined by iconic martyrs Christopher "The Notorious B.I.G." Wallace and Tupac Shakur.

"I'm really diluted to hip-hop right now," Bootcheck said. "Everything just sounds the same. I really like the older stuff; Biggie, Tupac. They were worth it."

If Bootcheck is ever granted control of the stereo, perhaps the long-deceased duo will reemerge in Anaheim.






