
ANAHEIM -- What started with Seattle, the Angels only hope will end with Seattle.

The Angels, who were swept by the visiting Mariners in a four-game series immediately prior to the All-Star break, returned home on Thursay after being swept in a three-game series in Seattle. Including those two bookends, the Halos entered Thursday 29-32 since climbing a season-high 20 games over .500 on July 6, when they were 52-32.

And the blame for that skid, according to manager Mike Scioscia, rests on an offense that scored only 254 runs in those 61 games -- an average of 4.16 per game. The offense averaged 4.85 runs per game as the Angels got off to their 52-32 start.

"Our offense has been spotty at times -- sometimes it hasn't shown up for six or seven games," Scioscia said. "And when you're in so many tight games, the strain on your pitching staff and the back end of your bullpen is formidable. The lack of runs has created an abnormal amount of close games."

The Angels' team ERA is higher (3.81) during the last 61 games than it was beforehand (3.59), and the lack of offense has placed particular pressure on the bullpen, which has blown 10 of 29 save chances since the All-Star break and has posted a 4.53 ERA since Aug. 1.

It's an unfortunate confluence of events for the Angels, who believe they should have more than a one-game lead on the second-place A's entering Thursday. At least, though, the Angels know they have the potential to play appreciably better than they have been during the last two and a half months.

"There's no complacency here to say, 'Hey, we did it last year,'" Scioscia said. "We're not going to get there unless we play better baseball, particularly on the offensive end."

Colon's milestone: Right-hander Bartolo Colon has been largely immune to the Angels' struggling offense and entered his start Thursday night with 19 wins.

Colon has become such a sure thing that the once-fickle fans at Angel Stadium now give the big right-hander standing ovations before he throws a pitch. On Thursday, Colon drew extended applause as he meandered from the bullpen to the dugout prior to the first inning.

"He's showing everybody what they brought him here for," left-hander Jarrod Washburn said. "I think he's that ace that everybody wishes they had and very few teams do have. It's been fun to watch [him] this year."

Colon, who has become the favorite for the American League Cy Young Award, makes his first bid for 20 wins on Thursday on the same date (Sept. 15) that 1964 Cy Young Award winner Dean Chance threw a shutout at Yankee Stadium, earning his 19th win of the year.

Chance, who pitched for the Angels from 1961-66, finished the 1964 season 20-9 with a league-leading 1.65 ERA. He allowed one run -- a Mickey Mantle homer -- in 50 innings against the Yankees that year, posting an unfathomable 0.18 ERA against them.

Washburn optimistic: Washburn, who last pitched on Sept. 9 and missed his scheduled start on Sept. 14 with tightness in his left forearm, continues to report improvement, but a return date remains elusive.

"It's just gradually getting better," Washburn said, "but unless I sat out the rest of the season, it wouldn't completely disappear. Hopefully, we can knock it down enough that I can make another [few] starts, whatever we need."

Washburn said he hopes to return sometime shortly after the Angels' off-day Monday, Sept. 19, but Scioscia isn't quite as optimistic.

"He probably [won't] start playing catch until early next week," Scioscia said, which would likely delay Washburn's return until next weekend at the earliest.

Batting practice MVP: Scioscia typically holds his pregame meeting with the media while the Angels stretch on the field, cutting it off when the Halos begin batting practice, so that he may hit grounders to the Angels infielders. When a local columnist asked him why it was so important that Scioscia never be late for BP, the skipper was succinct.

"Best fungo hitter on the staff," he said. "Do you know how many ground balls I hit to second base in my career? I've got to be out there."

Like clockwork: Vladimir Guerrero hit a two-run homer in the first inning on Thursday, simultaneously reaching the 30-homer and 100-RBI plateaus for the seventh time in his last eight seasons.

On deck: John Lackey (12-5, 3.30 ERA) will face struggling Tigers right-hander Jason Johnson (8-12, 4.57 ERA) on Friday at 7:05 p.m. PT. Lackey has allowed two or fewer earned runs in nine of his last 11 starts. Johnson beat the Royals in his last start for his first win since July and his first September victory since 2002.






