
ANAHEIM -- Mark Teixeira sat in the dugout fully dressed in his Angels home jersey for the first time and talked about how much he loved playing in Anaheim as an opposing player.



The first baseman ranked Angel Stadium as his third favorite place to play, behind New York's Yankee Stadium and Seattle's Safeco Field.



"I've always loved playing here," Teixeira said. "The weather is great and the fans are amazing even though I got booed a lot here. Hopefully they'll start cheering now that I'm an Angel. The fans are so great that everyone is wearing red and screaming and if you're losing in the eighth or ninth inning the Rally Monkey comes out."



Teixeira, who played five seasons with the Rangers from 2003-07, is quite familiar with the ballpark as he has played in Anaheim 84 times in his career, including three times this season with the Braves.



Even though Teixiera's career batting average is just .245 at the Big A, he chalked that up to great pitching by the Angels. He also added the Angels haven't changed much since he was with Texas as they continue to be the class of the American League West under manager Mike Scioscia.



"There's really no difference," Teixeira said. "It's the same thing I've seen. As a visiting player you see the Angels do everything right. They pitch, they hit, they play defense. And Scioscia really knows how to manage a game."



The Angels won three division titles during Teixeira's five years with the Rangers and are almost certainly a lock to win yet another one as they had an 11 1/2-game lead over Texas entering Monday's game against the Orioles. But Teixeira took a page from Scioscia'a book and didn't want to talk too much about the prospect of playing in the postseason for the first time in his career.



"I don't want to get too excited," Teixeira said. "We have a job to do tonight and every night for the rest of the season but at the same time it's my sixth season in baseball and I've never made the playoffs. It's obviously in the back of my mind that I could play in October."



Teixeira is batting .222 with one home run and five RBIs, including Sunday's grand slam against the Yankees, in five games with the Angels this season. He knows that his addition to the Angels, who currently have the best record in baseball, means that the World Series is the goal this season and it's something he's comfortable with.



"Fans here know we have a chance to win," Teixeira said. "I'm not going to come out here and win games single-handedly. But what I am going to do is play my hardest offensively and defensively and hopefully the addition of me will put us over the hump."






