
ANAHEIM -- Orlando Cabrera took early batting practice Thursday to work through some issues with his swing.

Cabrera has power, but he's not a pure slugger and he took the extra time before the series finale with the Indians to work on timing and a repeating swing that will produce hits, but not necessarily homers.

The Angels shortstop proved his timing was impeccable and that acute sense may have allowed him to win a few hometown hearts.

Cabrera drilled a 3-1 fastball from Indians reliever Jason Davis, a towering drive that provided Alex Cora, making his first Major League outfield appearance, a view he'd never seen before as it drifted over his head and into the left-field seats for a walk-off solo homer and a 6-5 Angels win in 10 innings.

"He brings some power to the plate," Jarrod Washburn said, who made his fourth start and drew his fourth no-decision. "One swing of the bat and we won."

It didn't hurt that Cabrera knew what was coming.

"The whole game they were pounding me inside," Cabrera said, who hit the fourth walk-off homer of his career and first for the Angels this season. "I figured in the last at-bat they would pitch me inside. So I was looking for it."

Cabrera was a major offseason free agent signing by the Angels. A member of the World Series champion Red Sox last year, Cabrera not only brings a winning presence, but Gold Glove defensive skills.

From a team perspective, it made perfect sense to improve the defense by installing Cabrera at shortstop. From the fan's perspective, it seemed like a betrayal as one of their favorites, David Eckstein, was allowed to walk.

But the Angels are in the business to win titles and Cabrera represented an opportunity to allow the club to take that step. The move appears to be as on target as Cabrera was with his extra batting practice Thursday. The 30-year-old has delivered two 10th-inning homers already this season.

"It is tough to replace a guy the fans loved. Everyone loved David; we loved David," Washburn said. "We knew right away it was an upgrade at short and the fans will see that."

Cabrera's heroics were sensational from an Angels perspective, but through the first eight innings the game was a string of missed opportunities.

Washburn entered Thursday's game riding an eight-inning scoreless streak thanks to a solid outing in his previous start in Oakland. In that start, Washburn moved the ball around and changed speeds effectively, but against the Indians he did not have the same command.

After striking out Coco Crisp to open the game, Ron Belliard and Victor Martinez hit consecutive singles. Washburn then twirled to nail Belliard on an attempted pickoff, but the ball sailed into center field and both baserunners advanced on the error.

Travis Hafner then hit a sharp single up the middle, but second base umpire Chuck Meriwether could not get out of the way. The ball caromed off his leg, causing Belliard to return to third base. Washburn caught a break and regrouped by striking out Casey Blake, but Jose Hernandez cleared the bases with a double into the left-field corner.

Washburn's second inning was no less adventurous. Crisp doubled to right-center and Belliard followed with his third homer this season that appeared to keep getting more air before it drifted over Garret Anderson's head and into the Angels' bullpen.

"I made two mistakes," Washburn said, whose four starts have all resulted in extra-inning games. "Both pitches were changeups and I left them out over the plate."

At the plate, the Angels chipped away but left a number of scoring chances go unfulfilled.

The Angels loaded the bases in the second inning on a pair of hits and a walk, but Chone Figgins grounded to second to end the inning. A leadoff double by Darin Erstad only produced one run in the third and a bases-loaded, none-out situation in the fourth only netted two runs.

"We missed a number of opportunities, but our bullpen really stepped up and saved us," manager Mike Scioscia said.

With Esteban Yan, Brendan Donnelly, Jake Woods and Francisco Rodriguez combining to throw five shutout innings, the Angels quietly moved into position.

In the eighth, Maicer Izturis hit a one-out pinch-hit single, stole second and came home on an RBI single by Jose Molina.

Then in the ninth, Anderson delivered with a shallow single to center that scored Erstad, who led off the inning with a walk and set the stage for Cabrera.

"We just kept playing the game," Scioscia said. "Some times you fall short and some times you come back, but you keep playing the game."






