
ANAHEIM -- Establishing out of the gate a preference for home cooking, the Angels moved from last on April 18 to sole possession of first place in the AL West on April 26 -- and maintained their place atop the division the rest of the season.

The offense roared through May (18-11) and June (17-9) and again in August (18-11). The clincher came at home on Sept. 23 against second-place Seattle at Angel Stadium, where the Angels had the best home record in the Majors at 54-27.

The sluggish start was related to injuries and a disorienting opening road trip that brought one win in eight games. Chone Figgins, Bartolo Colon and Jered Weaver opened the season on the DL, along with Juan Rivera, who would miss most of the season recovering from a broken leg, and Dallas McPherson, lost for the season due to back surgery.

Vladimir Guerrero, Figgins and Orlando Cabrera were season-long offensive forces, while new center fielder Gary Matthews Jr. blended with young first baseman Casey Kotchman and second baseman Howie Kendrick in a slash-and-dash lineup that finished fourth in the AL in runs scored -- in part because Garret Anderson overcame a hip flexor tear early in the season to deliver a monster second half.

Catchers Mike Napoli and Jeff Mathis alternately handled the pitching staff capably after veteran Jose Molina was dealt to the Yankees on July 21 for Minor League pitcher Jeff Kennard. Anchoring the defense were Gold Glove candidates Matthews in center, Cabrera at shortstop and Kotchman at first base.

John Lackey (19-9, AL-best 3.01 ERA) and Kelvim Escobar (18-7, 3.40) had career years, giving the club a one-two starting tandem with few equals, and Weaver was a solid No. 3 starter after recovering from right biceps tendonitis. Francisco Rodriguez saved the All-Star Game for the AL and finished with 40 saves.

The season ended quickly with an injury-riddled offense scoring only four runs in a three-game sweep by Boston in the ALDS.


2007 RECAP

 Record: 94-68, first in AL West 

 Defining moment:  The Mariners had closed to within two games of the lead and were pumped for an Aug. 27-29 showdown in Seattle. The Angels swept, with Lackey authoring a shutout in the first game, the offense rallying from a five-run deficit to prevail in the middle game, and Weaver outdueling Felix Hernandez in the finale. Anderson's booming bat -- he homered and doubled in the first game and had four hits in the finale -- was the difference, with Guerrero's four hits keying the 10-6 triumph in the middle game.







2007 Angels statistical leaders

Hitting
Pitching


Average: Chone Figgins, .330
Wins: John Lackey, 19


Doubles: Vladimir Guerrero, 45
Losses: Ervin Santana, 14


Triples: Figgins, 6
ERA (starter): Lackey, 3.01


Home runs: Guerrero, 27
ERA (reliever, min. 10 appearances): Francisco Rodriguez, 2.81


Runs: Orlando Cabrera, 101
Saves: Rodriguez, 40


RBIs: Guerrero, 125


Stolen bases: Figgins, 41





 What went right:  The stars delivered when it counted, but the Angels could not have won the division without valuable contributions from role players such as Mathis, outfielders Reggie Willits and Nathan Haynes, infielders Maicer Izturis, Erick Aybar, Robb Quinlan and Kendry Morales and pitchers Dustin Moseley and Chris Bootcheck. Willits, Izturis and Mathis were especially vital with their poised, productive play. Rodriguez and Scot Shields had dominant first halves, and while K-Rod and Shields experienced rocky second-half stretches, veteran Darren Oliver stabilized the bullpen along with Bootcheck and Moseley.


 What went wrong:  The back end of the rotation was less than stable with Colon (shoulder, elbow) enduring injury issues and Ervin Santana struggling with command issues. Joe Saunders took advantage of his opportunity to nail down a rotation job, and Moseley also was capable as an emergency starter. Newcomer Justin Speier missed 10 weeks with a non-baseball related medical condition, causing adjustments in a bullpen that was not as effective overall as anticipated despite superlative first halves by All-Star Rodriguez and Shields.

 Biggest surprise:  For five seasons, versatile, exciting Figgins was a good player. In 2007, he transformed himself into a great one. Returning to third base in late April after fracturing the tips of his right middle and index fingers in Spring Training, Figgins needed time to gain strength in the hand and to find his timing at the plate. Once he got into a groove, Figgins took flight on one of the greatest hitting stretches in franchise history, keying the offense from the leadoff spot. His 53 hits in June set a club record for a month, and he finished sixth in the league with a .330 average. From May 31 forward, he batted a Majors-best .381. His .415 on-base percentage while leading off was the Majors' best after he was last in that category in 2006.

FORECAST FOR 2008
 Lineup:  The groupings, as manager Mike Scioscia likes to call them, probably will remain intact for the most part. That would have Figgins, Cabrera and Guerrero up top, with Anderson, Kotchman, Matthews and Kendrick following. Unsettled is the DH spot, with Rivera expected to get first crack after missing most of 2007 with a broken leg. Mathis and Napoli will share the catching. When he's in the lineup at DH or in the outfield, Willits will bat ninth or first. The long-discussed addition of a power bat could alter the middle of the order.

Rotation: Lackey, Escobar and Weaver are set, as good as any top three in the league. Combining for 39 wins (19 by Lackey) and 419 2/3 innings (224 by Lackey), they were a durable, dynamic tandem. Lackey seized the AL ERA title at 3.01, and Escobar also was a Cy Young Award candidate until shoulder issues bogged him down in September. Weaver is poised to bust out with a huge year. Saunders and Santana are favorites to flush out the rotation. Colon is a free agent, and it's doubtful he'll be back. Young and talented, Santana is expected to bounce back to something approaching his 16-win form in 2006 after a fitful season. Saunders provides a southpaw presence and should benefit from the stability of a role from the start.





&#149; Season in review
&#149; Late injuries mar great '07 for Angels
&#149; Second half photo gallery 




 Bullpen:  On paper, it's as good as any in the game. It's perplexing that it fashioned only the seventh-best ERA among AL bullpens, given the talent. K-Rod wants to be more consistent with his control, and Shields needs to put together two solid halves after slumping after the break. Speier will benefit from a healthy campaign after missing 10 weeks with an illness. Oliver is back, cool and calm and left-handed, and Moseley and Bootcheck also were solid in middle relief. Power righties Jason Bulger and Rich Thompson should get shots at cracking the unit.


 Biggest need:  Good health. It's impossible to gauge how good this team could have been if it had stayed even reasonably sound, but the entire season was a procession back and forth from the trainer's room to the DL to the active list. Yes, of course, a big bat, preferably right-handed, would be a welcomed addition. Shea Hillenbrand was supposed to be the guy, but that didn't pan out. Blessed with so many attractive young athletes, trade discussions could be plentiful. But the Angels are understandably reluctant to part with their best prospects.

 Prospect to watch:  This could be the spring that Brandon Wood puts it all together and powers his way into the lineup as a DH or third baseman, with Figgins becoming an all-purpose chess piece again. Wood has big-time power and showed solid improvement at third base, a new position for the natural shortstop. Bulger and Thompson both have big arms and could forge bullpen roles. Prize pitching prospect Nick Adenhart is probably another year away.








