
SEATTLE -- Jon Garland can be his own worst critic. He has been known to apply cold analysis and judge his performances harshly, something of a rarity in his profession as a professional pitcher.

Yet it was still surprising to hear Garland say on Thursday evening, after a less than stellar showing on Wednesday night (five innings, 11 hits, five earned runs) against the Mariners, that he doesn't think he deserves a starting spot in the upcoming American League Division Series.

"I don't make that decision," Garland said of the Angels' prospective rotation against the AL Wild Card team in the best-of-five opening series. "If it was my decision, I wouldn't be starting."

Garland has seen the work of John Lackey, Ervin Santana and Joe Saunders, the big three, and he feels Jered Weaver has pitched in bad luck -- a view supported by Weaver's overall season numbers.

While Garland is 14-8 with a 4.90 ERA in 32 starts, Weaver is 11-10 with a 4.33 ERA. Weaver has 152 strikeouts against 54 walks in 176 2/3 innings, while Garland -- a contact pitcher who tries to bury sinkers in on hitters -- has 90 strikeouts against 59 walks in 196 2/3 innings. Opponents are batting .303 against Garland, .254 against Weaver.

Manager Mike Scioscia has given no indication which way he'll go if he needs a Game 4 starter.

Garland came up big for the 2005 White Sox on their way to the World Series title, beating the Angels with a complete game in the AL Championship Series and pitching effectively in his start against the Astros in the World Series sweep. In 16 total postseason innings, he yielded just four earned runs.

Garland has made two relief appearances over the past six-plus seasons after beginning his career with the White Sox in 2001 as a combination pitcher, with 19 starts and 19 relief appearances.
"Whatever they want, I'll be happy," he said. "I've been in the bullpen before. It's just a matter of watching the game. You're only taking two pitches into the game [as a reliever] rather than four."

He emphasizes that he'd love to get a starting assignment, but he realizes he's on a staff loaded with quality starters.

"I definitely want to start," he said. "Any guy in the league who's been starting all year, this is what he wants to do. But if I want to start, I should pitch better.

"There have definitely been times [this season] I threw the ball really well. A lot of times I was OK, and other times I was really bad. I have to be prepared for anything."






