
ANAHEIM --  Darin Erstad took a big step, or actually, a lot of small steps, toward returning to the Angels, when he played center field for all 10 innings of Friday night's Salt Lake Bees Triple-A game.

"Physically he felt much better the last two nights, and that is encouraging," said manager Mike Scioscia.

Sidelined with a right ankle irritation since May 1, Erstad begin his rehab assignment on June 3, playing designated hitter for Class A Rancho Cucamonga.  He then joined the Bees, but after just a few games, he started experiencing soreness in the ankle, and had to stop playing, returning to Southern California for more therapy.

Luckily for Erstad and the Angels, he responded quickly and only need a few days before he was ready to resume playing.

"From where we were a couple days ago, we are very happy, in fact his ankle has responded much better," Scioscia said.

He returned to Salt Lake on Thursday, playing center field and feeling well enough Friday morning to play again that night.

As Scioscia pointed out, "It's definitely a good sign when you go out there and play back-to-back nights and it feels good."

Although there isn't a timetable for Erstad's return, Scioscia is feeling encouraged with the reports, saying that right now, it's not the ankle that will determine his return, as much as shaking off the rust.

"When he's played enough that he feels that he's put it all back together again, we'll be glad to have him back," Scioscia said.

Meanwhile, Bartolo Colon is also getting closer to returning.  After pitching for the Bees on Tuesday, Colon threw a bullpen session Saturday afternoon in front of pitching coach Bud Black.

"He threw a 10-minute side, threw the ball well, and I'm encourage by the way Bart threw," said Black.

Just as with Erstad, there is also no exact timetable for Colon's return.  He will pitch Monday night for the Bees in Fresno, and it is expected that he will throw between 90 and 100 pitches.

"It's all part of a regular pitching schedule and we'll re-evaluate after Monday," Black said.

Also starting on the comeback trail, though much further away, is Casey Kotchman, who has begun to resume some physical activities.

"He's doing some more physical activities", Scioscia said, "When Casey gets to baseball-related activities I'll feel better about that.

Obviously, so will the Angels, who were counting on all three to be major contributors this season.

Pitching in:  After losing six in a row and dropping to a season-worst 19-28, the Angels have won 10 of 15 and a big part of the reason has been the starting pitching.  After struggling though May with a 5.08 team ERA for the month, the Angels have posted a 2.80 mark for the first seven games of June.  In 11 of the last 15 games, Halos hurlers have held opponents to three earned runs or less.

"The starters have pitched great the last couple of go-arounds so it's really been encouraging," Black said.

As for what happens when Colon comes back, Black isn't saying.

"We have quite a bit of depth with five starters here pitching well and Bartolo coming back.  It's a great indication for our organization."

Down on the farm:  Howie Kendrick continues to scorch the Pacific Coast League, going 4-for-5 last night in Salt Lake's 8-7 loss to Tucson.  After his sixth straight multihit game, Kendrick is now hitting .414.  The Double-A Arkansas Travelers had two players named to the Texas League All-Star Game.  Second baseman Eric Rodland and shortstop Brandon Wood will both start for the North Division, Wood as the designated hitter.

On deck:  The Angels close out the three-game set with the Mariners on Sunday in a 12:35 p.m. game, when Jeff Weaver squared off against the Mariners' Felix Hernandez.






