
MINNEAPOLIS -- John Lackey got hit hard, which is exactly how he took it -- hard.

"I'm not going to sleep well tonight," the Angels' All-Star right-hander said, having twice given up early leads as the Twins pounded out a 7-5 victory on Friday night at the Metrodome. "I'm the reason we lost that game. ... The guys did everything they needed to do, and I let them down. They got me two runs before I even stepped out there."

The Twins scored three times in the bottom of the first, erasing that 2-0 deficit, and they rallied for four runs in the third after the Angels had seized the lead with two runs in the top half of the inning.

Jason Kubel's two-run triple in the first and Justin Morneau's two-run homer -- his 26th -- in the third were the big blows for the Twins, who snapped a three-game losing streak.

Lackey lasted five innings, giving up seven runs, five earned, on 10 hits and one walk while striking out three. Only one of his 20 starts has been shorter, a loss to Houston in 4 2/3 innings on June 18.

Carlos Silva (8-10) endured a ragged start to pick up the win, with Lackey falling to 12-6 with the loss.

The Angels are 3-4 in the second half and 7-12 since June 25, enabling surging Seattle to nip at their heels in a suddenly tight American League West Division race.

"If we play the way we can play," Lackey said, "that'll take care of itself. It's 162 games, man. Everybody goes through ups and downs.

"The guys did everything to win tonight. We lost because of me. They scored runs early, gave me an opportunity. I've got to win that game."

The Angels came out of the chute with a 2-0 lead. Chone Figgins doubled and Orlando Cabrera singled, and a throwing error by Nick Punto after stabbing Vlad Guerrero's line drive allowed Figgins to score and Cabrera to take second base. He scored on Gary Matthews Jr.'s two-out single.

A two-out RBI single by Morneau delivered Jason Bartlett, who'd tripled, but Lackey could have been out of the first with the lead on Torii Hunter's grounder to the left of Cabrera. Sure-handed and dependable all year, the shortstop bobbled and couldn't get the force at second. Kubel then lashed a triple to right-center that had the Twins in front.

"We had an error," Lackey said, "but I could have gotten us out of the inning fine.

"I allowed them to be way too comfortable tonight. I wasn't aggressive enough. Everything soft I threw in the zone, they were hitting."

Garret Anderson, hitting cleanup in the afterglow of a string of multihit games, raked a two-run double in the third to give the lead back to Lackey. It followed a leadoff walk by Figgins, a single by Guerrero and a pair of throwing errors on a relay, the Twins seemingly determined to assist the Angels.

"They cracked the door open for us throwing the ball around," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said, "and we gave them an extra out [on Cabrera's error]."

The Twins erupted for four runs in the bottom of the third, Bartlett getting it going with a leadoff single. On a 1-1 delivery, Morneau launched a 430-foot missile to right-center -- just the 12th homer yielded by Lackey in 131 2/3 innings.

Singles by Hunter and Kubel and a walk to Darnell McDonald -- making his season debut for the Twins -- had Lackey reeling. But he was on the verge of escaping after striking out Garrett Jones.

Lackey's frustration boiled over when Punto found a hole on the right side, driving in a pair of runs that proved decisive.

"If we'd shut the door that inning, we could have minimized the damage," Scioscia said, discounting any notions that Lackey, who pushed a start back two days before the All-Star break, might have a sore arm. "Some days you're not going to put balls in the spots you want."

Maicer Izturis doubled in the fourth and scored on Figgins' sacrifice fly after the second of three singles by Mike Napoli, playing for the first time since injuring his left shin on July 1.

Napoli lined out in his final at-bat, bringing a threat back to the lineup that has been missing since he suffered a deep bone contusion in his left shin, blocking the plate with a game on the line in Baltimore on July 1.

The Angels won that game, 4-3, with Napoli sealing off Melvin Mora on Guerrero's memorable throw from right. Napoli and Casey Kotchman each homered in that game -- the last time an Angels hitter went deep.

It's 13 games and counting without a big fly for Scioscia's troupe, a July outage underscored by the lack of juice throughout a lineup that flourished through May and June.

But offense was not the problem on this rare occasion that Lackey didn't get the job done.

"You can't hold 'em all season," Anderson said, having driven in two runs for the second game in a row. "You can't expect them to do it all the time.

"John looks at himself as a leader on the club, and he accepts responsibility. It was just one of those nights."






