
OAKLAND -- Dan Haren viewed this as an opportunity to seize, and seize it he did.
The reeling, depleted Angels threw a makeshift lineup at him on Wednesday that did not include Vladimir Guerrero and Howie Kendrick, and the A's right-hander blew through it with seven shutout innings and a cruise-control, 3-0 decision at McAfee Coliseum.
With losses in six straight games and seven of eight on a long, distressing road trip through Milwaukee (against Cleveland), Boston and Oakland, the Angels fell hard from first to last in the American League West.
"It's not just Vlad," Haren said. "They're missing [Chone] Figgins and [Juan] Rivera, and Kendrick wasn't in there today, either. It's not their No. 1 lineup out there, and when you get a chance to take two games from them, it's huge.
John Lackey slipped to 2-2 with another solid effort, limiting the A's to three runs on eight hits and two walks across seven innings.
"I would say it's not close," Lackey said, when asked if Guerrero's presence is more important to the Angels than any other hitter in the American League to his club. "To lose him for an extended period of time would not be a good thing.
"He's one of those guys you can't even pitch around. He won't let you."
Guerrero, whose right hand took the brunt of a fastball from Boston's Josh Beckett on Monday, missed both games of the series, subtracting his .364 bat and club-high three homers and 12 RBIs.
Kendrick, hitting .327 with two homers and four RBIs, was sent home with Guerrero before Wednesday's finale, both to have hands examined at the Kerlan-Jobe Clinic in Los Angeles. Kendrick was struck on the left hand by A's starter Chad Gaudin on Tuesday night, and he wound up on the DL after word came back from L.A. that he has a broken bone in his middle finger.
Even with those two, the Angels struggled offensively throughout the trip, scoring once in 18 innings in Oakland and only six times during their six-game losing spin.
"When you look at their lineup without Vlad in it," said Haren, who moved to 1-2 yielding four hits and no walks, "you look at it as a game you should win. It's a different lineup without him in it.
"I'd rather face almost anyone in the American League than Vlad."
Lackey's loss was his third in 13 career decisions against Oakland, avenging for Haren a 2-1 loss to the Angels' ace in Anaheim on April 6.
"Going against Haren, I knew I had to throw up zeros to win," Lackey said. "He's throwing the ball great."
The A's broke through against Lackey with a two-run third inning. It started with singles by Jason Kendall and Marco Scutaro. After a walk to Shannon Stewart, Nick Swisher grounded into a fielder's choice to score one run, and Eric Chavez's single delivered the second before Lackey escaped by inducing Mike Piazza to hit into a double play.
While Haren was breezing -- Orlando Cabrera represented half the Angels offense against him with a double and a single -- Lackey surrendered a run in the fifth when Chavez singled home Stewart.
Angels hitting coach Mickey Hatcher remained characteristically upbeat in the face of a .247 team batting average and only eight homers compared to 12 by the opposition.
"These guys are good, and I'm going to be there for them, good or bad," Hatcher said. "Maybe five days from now, you'll say, `What are you doing different?' Well, we didn't do anything different. They just got confident."
Scioscia, in his eighth season, couldn't recall a time when his team went through a stretch this unproductive offensively.
"For a string of games," he said, "I don't know if I've ever seen us struggle as much in total offense -- not just the batter's box, but trying to get on base, move runners. We're as stagnant as I've seen.
"The guys in the lineup are the guys who have to do it -- counting Vlad and Howard. Those are guys who were doing it in the first week of the season. Right now, the faucet's been turned off."
Leadoff man Gary Matthews Jr. is confident a return to creature comforts of Southern California could be an elixir.
"You clear your head, get a fresh start at home, get a chance to turn the page, that's the main thing," Matthews said, having gone 1-for-4 and barely missing extra bases on a line drive down the left-field line against Haren. "There's no secret ingredient. The truth is, when you have a bad day and don't execute your plan, it doesn't sit well. It leaves a bad taste in your mouth. It's probably one of the reasons why we're all at this level.
"The most important thing is not to get frustrated. If your approach is right, you'll turn things around. And it can happen fast."






