
ATLANTA -- No one in St. Louis sees Jeff Weaver as a savior. Rather than "The Answer," the Cardinals are just hoping the right-hander is an answer to the questions in their starting rotation.

The Cards acquired Weaver and cash considerations from the Angels on Wednesday night in exchange for Minor League outfielder Terry Evans. Weaver, 29, will be asked to help bolster a starting rotation that has struggled mightily since the beginning of June.

It's been a difficult year for Weaver, who was 3-10 with a 6.29 ERA for Los Angeles. He was designated for assignment on Friday, with younger brother Jered being called up to take his roster spot.

A year ago, Weaver was a dependable member of the Dodgers' rotation, going 14-11 with a 4.22 ERA in 224 innings. He has pitched at least 200 innings four times in his Major League career, and came up one-third of an inning short in 2002.

The Cards believe they have done sufficient due diligence to establish that Weaver can help out a rotation that has struggled to pitch deep into games.

"We saw a guy that was available that we feel like can help our ballclub," said pitching coach Dave Duncan. "I did as much as I could [to check up on him], and I was satisfied that he would be a good teammate. I'm satisfied that he's healthy physically. [I'm] satisfied that his stuff is still good enough for him to pitch and give us a chance to win."

The Cardinals have received quality starts in only 10 of their last 30 games, dating back to the beginning of June. Weaver's last game, a June 27 loss to Colorado, was one of his worst of the season, but before that he had been going quite well.

After starting the year 1-7 with a 7.30 ERA, he reeled off a string of fine starts. From May 24 through June 21, Weaver went at least 5 2/3 innings in every game, and did not allow more than three earned runs in any of six straight starts. He racked up 33 strikeouts against seven walks in that span, and in fact he has a solid 62:21 K:BB mark for the year.

"I've seen him in person, seen him on TV," manager Tony La Russa said. "I've always had a lot of respect for him. I think the key is, what is he like in 2006? We had some materials that we were able to watch, and it looked like his arm is healthy."

Weaver is expected to join the team during its weekend series in Houston, but it's unclear when he will be activated or how he will be integrated into the pitching staff.

"I think he's going to be here Friday," said manager Tony La Russa. "I'm not going to speculate a lot. He may just jump in there and work some innings. Who knows? [I] haven't even talked to him."

Weaver signed a one-year deal with the Angels this winter for $8.325 million. It was reported that Los Angeles would be willing to pick up a significant portion of the contract in order to get a player it liked in exchange for Weaver.

Only two current members of the Cardinals' starting rotation carry ERAs under 5.60, though Jason Marquis has 10 wins to go with his 5.78 mark. Thus, it's not a slam dunk as to who will be bumped in order to make room for Weaver. The most likely candidate might be Sidney Ponson, who briefly lost his rotation spot before Mark Mulder went on the disabled list.

Evans, 24, was a 47th-round draft pick in 2001 who was slow to advance through the Cardinals system until a breakout this year. He began the year at Class A Palm Beach before earning a promotion to Double-A Springfield. In 81 games combined between the two levels, he is hitting .310 with 22 home runs, 65 RBIs and 26 steals in 28 chances.






