
PHOENIX -- The Angels' brain trust used Thursday's break in the schedule to discuss the state of the team.

Owner Arturo Moreno met with general manager Bill Stoneman and field manager Mike Scioscia during an Arizona Summer League game.

"It was a very positive meeting," Scioscia said. "We expanded the meeting and threw out some creative ideas. We covered virtually everything. It was very constructive in moving forward."

The Angels entered Friday in last place in the American League West, seven games behind Oakland and eight games under .500. They are also near the bottom of a number of AL offensive categories and acquiring a bat was one of the topics of discussion.

Names that have been linked in trade rumors with the Angels include Orioles shortstop Miguel Tejada, Pirates first baseman Craig Wilson and Devil Rays outfielder Carl Crawford. But any deal would likely cost the Angels a number of prospects and probably relief pitcher Scot Shields -- players the club has demonstrated an unwillingness to move.

What is more tangible, Scioscia said, is the team has a few players who are currently underperforming and a great deal is being expected out of rookies and inexperienced players.

"It is certainly something to look very closely at. Is it unrealistic? No, but it is something we have to look at," Scioscia said of the demand placed on players like Mike Napoli and Kendry Morales. "We're not always going to have this lineup, but right now we do, and we have to go at this as hard as we can."

Unsettled future: Darin Erstad was placed on the 15-day disabled list on Friday due to a sore right ankle, a move that was retroactive to June 18, and Tommy Murphy was recalled from Triple-A Salt Lake to take his place on the roster.

It is the second trip to the DL for Erstad, who expressed uncertainty about his future.

"I'm back on the dead list. If I don't take a few days, we would be a guy down," Erstad said. "I don't know where we go from here."

Erstad missed 37 games the first time he was on the DL and also missed eight days in Spring Training. The 32-year-old tried to run during early batting practice Friday afternoon, but said he was unable to put any stress on the ankle, either trying to turn or trying to stop.


"We all feel for what Darin is going through," Scioscia said. "You have to know this guy and all the pride he takes in helping us win and not being able to be a part of it. He was a big piece in center field and a big piece of the puzzle. It is hard to take."




Complete coverage &gt;


Erstad has battled hamstring issues throughout much of his career, caused by a tendency for his right knee to hyperextend. He wore a brace while playing first base, but thought those issues were largely behind him when he moved back to center field this year only to suffer problems with his right ankle that also has bone spurs.

He's tried rest and orthotics, while also receiving two cortisone shots and taking a host of medications, but said none of those treatments has provided adequate relief to get him on the baseball field.

Erstad continues to resist the idea of surgery, adding that any procedure would mostly be exploratory given none of the tests point to anything other than inflammation. The season is nearing the halfway point and his contract is up at the end of the year, but Erstad is not willing to entertain thoughts that his career or his tenure with the Angels is over.

"I haven't really looked at all that. I'm trying to get healthy to play this year," Erstad said. "I'm a little concerned that I took six weeks off and it didn't get better. I'm not going to concede anything yet. We still have a lot of baseball left."

Erstad is hitting .220 with seven doubles, no homers and five RBIs in 27 games. Murphy hit .331 with two homers, 10 doubles and 21 RBIs in 34 games at Salt Lake. He hit .243 with one homer, two doubles, a triple and three RBIs in 37 at-bats with the Angels earlier this year.

Remember my name: Jered Weaver established a Salt Lake franchise record with 14 strikeouts in a complete-game, two-hit, 1-0 shutout at home against Sacramento on Friday. The right-hander also was perfect through the first three innings and had a no-hitter through 6 2/3 innings. 

Trainer's room: Third baseman Dallas McPherson was a late scratch from Friday's lineup after experiencing back spasms during batting practice.

On deck: The Angels will play the Diamondbacks in the second game of the series at 6:40 p.m. PT on Saturday. Right-hander Bartolo Colon will face Arizona right-hander Claudio Vargas. Right-hander Kelvim Escobar will start against the Diamondbacks on Sunday.







