
ANAHEIM -- The way Mike Scioscia saw it, the Angels could have won an Emmy for their primetime performance on Thursday night, with Kelvim Escobar earning one for best actor.

The Angels manager watched his winning recipe of strong pitching and proper situational hitting work wonders against the Mariners. After being suspended for three games in the fallout from Wednesday's scrum with the Rangers, Scioscia saw this Angels episode on television from the comfort of his own office.

Escobar allowed one run in seven dominant innings and the Angels used two sacrifice flies and one big blow to knock off the Mariners, 5-2.

Scioscia said he thought Escobar (9-10) was "as locked in as he's been all year." Whether or not that's a byproduct of the television set, the Mariners wouldn't be a team to disagree.

The right-hander rebounded from a rough night in New York and limited the Mariners to seven hits, only one of which was better than a single. He showed impressive command all night, walking just one and throwing 70 of his 97 pitches for strikes.

"The key was trusting my stuff a little more," Escobar said. "Sometimes I tend to overthrow the ball and be too powerful, but today I had a good delivery and pounded the strike zone so I could use the rest of my pitches."

Thursday's contest marked the beginning of a crucial homestand, and the Angels got it started exactly as they had hoped. After they complete their four-game set with the Mariners, the Halos host the Red Sox and Yankees, both playoff regulars.

Despite playing in front of a sellout crowd at Angel Stadium nearly every night, the Angels are merely a .500 (28-28) team at their own digs. They will need to play much better at home, especially against next week's vaunted competition, to have any chance of catching the streaking A's.

"We can't worry about the A's, we have to worry about the Angels," Chone Figgins said. "It's getting down to the end of the season, and you're going to be playing some teams that are hungry, so to go out and just get wins is very important."

With the victory, the Angels moved within six games of the idle A's and regained sole possession of second place in the American League West.

Bench coach Ron Roenicke took over the managerial reins from Scioscia and sarcastically unveiled the strategy that earned him his first Major League managerial victory.

"I had a nice pick for the starting pitcher," said Roenicke, who will serve his one-game suspension on Sunday.

Garret Anderson, who has been slowed this year with a multitude of ailments, including plantar fasciitis, gave several signs that he may be returning to form.

He booked it on the basepaths and picked up his second triple of the season when left fielder Raul Ibanez was slow to retrieve his drive to left. Anderson also shined defensively, when he made a rare sprinting catch in the fifth to rob Yuniesky Betancourt of extra bases.

Said Roenicke: "[Anderson] plays a lot better for this manager than the other guy."

But Anderson, who went 2-for-4, downplayed any notion that he was clear of his injury problems, simply offering that he feels better than he did when the season started.

After the Mariners closed the gap to 2-1 in the top of the seventh inning, scoring a run on Willie Bloomquist's double play, Vladimir Guerrero reopened it, and then some.

In the bottom of the frame, the All-Star cleared the bases with a double to right-center, which brought the Angels lead to 5-1. After being walked in his previous two at-bats, Guerrero had nowhere to go and made the Mariners pay.

Figgins, who went 3-for-4, began the Angels' third inning with a single. Maicer Izturis sent him to third with a single up the middle and Orlando Cabrera didn't try to do too much and gave the Angels a 1-0 lead with a sacrifice fly.

After his triple, Anderson scored when Howie Kendrick lofted a fly to left in the fourth that put the Angels up, 2-0.

The well-pitched, well-executed game is exactly what the Angels were searching for after scuffling in Arlington a night earlier.

"A Lot of positive things happened out of really a bad situation yesterday," Roenicke said. "Everybody was up and feeling good. I didn't see anybody walking around moping or anything; it was a good atmosphere."

And it was an even better environment after a game in which the Angels were able to scratch and claw just enough against Mariners starter Jamie Moyer. The Angels won their second game this season against the veteran and tagged Moyer (6-12) for three runs on seven hits in 6 2/3 innings.

The Mariners fought back in the ninth and brought the tying run to the plate with one out, but Francisco Rodriguez held on for his 32nd save of the year.

All in all, the night was a first for Roenicke, a brilliant outing for Escobar and a relaxing evening for Scioscia, who may have picked up a new managerial strategy.

"If it takes me sitting here watching, I'll do it if it will get us [to the playoffs]," he said.






