
TEMPE, Ariz. -- In a statement released Saturday night, Angels owner Arte Moreno is encouraging center fielder Gary Matthews Jr. to cooperate with Major League Baseball's investigation into performance-enhancing drugs.



Meanwhile, Matthews' attorney -- Robert Shapiro, famous for his work on the O.J. Simpson trial -- issued a statement of his own Saturday, reiterating that Matthews will comment on the matter when "all investigations into this matter have been completed." 


Matthews, signed as a free agent to a five-year, $50 million contract in November, reportedly received human growth hormone from a pharmacy over the Internet in 2004. The Times-Union of Albany, N.Y., reported that Matthews allegedly was included on customer lists for Applied Pharmacy Services in Mobile, Ala.

The Angels released the following statement from Moreno on Saturday:

"The Angels and I have long been committed to eliminating the use of performance-enhancing substances from the game of baseball. We have fully supported the adoption and implementation of Major League Baseball and the Major League Baseball Players Association's Joint Drug Prevention and Treatment Program.

"We have routinely educated our players about the dangers of performance-enhancing substances and strongly encouraged players to avoid their use. Recently, our organization has supported the investigation initiated by Commissioner Bud Selig and conducted by Senator George Mitchell into the use of performance-enhancing substances in baseball, has cooperated with that investigation, and will continue to cooperate with that investigation.

"This week, the Angels and I were disappointed to learn that the name of one of our players, Gary Matthews Jr., has been allegedly associated with an investigation into the sale of performance-enhancing substances by an Internet pharmacy in Florida.

"Both the Angels and I have strongly encouraged Gary to cooperate with any authority investigating this matter. Specifically, the Angels have asked him to come forward and fully answer all questions surrounding the recent allegations against him. The organization continues to expect that this matter will come to a quick conclusion.

"These recent revelations continue to highlight that baseball and all other sports must continue to directly address the issue of performance-enhancing substances. There is no place in baseball for such substances, and we have and will continue to do what we can to eliminate them from the game."

Meanwhile, the Associated Press quoted Shapiro advising Matthews not to comment "while an investigation is ongoing."

"Gary wishes to cooperate with Major League Baseball, the Los Angeles Angels and any other investigative agency that may look into this matter," Shapiro told the AP on Saturday. "He is eager to tell his side of the story and looks forward to providing a statement once all investigations into the matter have been completed.

"However, it is my long standing policy not to allow clients to comment while an investigation is ongoing. To do so would be inappropriate and I believe irresponsible."

Matthews has appeared in two of the Angels' three Cactus League games this week. He homered Friday in Mesa against the Cubs. A career .263 hitter, he had a career year in 2006 for Texas, hitting .313 with 19 homers and 79 RBIs. He is expected to be the Angels' leadoff hitter.






