
MINNEAPOLIS -- Bartolo Colon wanted to throw fastballs on Saturday while catcher Bengie Molina wanted him to mix in some changeups.

It turned out that Molina's way may have proven to be more effective. Colon stuck with the fastball and was touched for five runs on six hits. But the Angels do not see any issues with the battery mates.

"I don't think it is miscommunication; I think it is communication," manager Mike Scioscia said. "They talk all the time. They talk before every start."

To his credit, Colon accepted the blame for Saturday and admitted that he should have tried to throw more offspeed pitches, but Scioscia attributes that to the type of pitcher Colon is.

"Bart creates three different looks with his fastball. It is not the same pitch," Scioscia said. "He's a fastball pitcher and he has to establish that pitch to bring in his breaking ball."

Scioscia also said that shaking a catcher off is not necessarily a problem, but reflective more of how to approach hitters.

"On any one count there are a number of options, and the pitcher and catcher are going to have a number of ideas," Scioscia said. "There may be one thing that you don't want to do, but there can be a number of things that you can do. Bart felt good with his fastball; Bengie felt he should mix it up. I don't think that there is any huge issue."

Price of playing: With groundouts to third in his first two at-bats Sunday, Vladimir Guerrero fell to 0-for-14 in the four-game series against the Twins. It is the longest stretch without a hit for Guerrero this season, who has been icing his left wrist over the last few days.

Guerrero said there is nothing amiss aside from normal wear and tear.

"It's nothing major," Guerrero said through an interpreter. "Just minor aches and pains from a lot of swings."

The 2004 American League MVP does not believe his approach at the plate has been affected after going 9-for-50 in his first 13 games of July.

"I'm very comfortable [at the plate]. I'm feeling as good as I usually do," Guerrero said. "Right now, the hits are not falling, and I'm not going to let that bother me."

Not taken lightly: The AL West has a slightly different appearance as the teams head into the heart of the summer. The Rangers have been in the hunt with the Angels all season and held on to first place in two three-day stretches in late May and early June.

But making things interesting lately have been the A's and the Mariners. Seattle came into Anaheim a week ago and swept a four-game series as the teams headed into the All-Star break.

As for an Oakland team that was left for dead on May 29, when they had the next-to-last record in the league at 17-32 and were 12 1/2 games back, the A's have gone 29-12 entering Sunday to place themselves in a position to be a factor in the division race.

The Angels will host the A's in a three-game series, beginning Monday. The two teams have split the six games between them this season, with the Angels taking the most recent series at home on April 22-24.

Last year, the Angels captured the AL West crown in Oakland in the regular season's final weekend, clinching on Saturday, Oct. 2, with a 5-4 win. The 2005 version of the A's looks a bit different with the departures of Mark Mulder and Tim Hudson, leaving only Barry Zito as the remaining member of the Big Three, but Scioscia believes the A's have found their identity.

"The whole team is totally different than it was in the beginning of the year," Scioscia said. "They went from the three power starters to having good arms in the bullpen. The balance [in the bullpen] is terrific."

The Angels will play eight games within their division in August and then play 17 of their last 30 games in the AL West, including the last seven in September and early October.

"Seattle is a better club; Texas brings a lot," Scioscia said. "There is a lot to deal with to get through our division. They're all playing great baseball."

On the farm: Kendry Morales went 4-for-4 with a run scored in Arkansas' 2-0 win at Corpus Christi on Saturday. Morales is hitting .270 with five doubles, four homers and 18 RBIs in 27 games for the Travelers.

On deck: Right-hander Ervin Santana will face Oakland right-hander Kirk Saarloos on Monday at 7:05 p.m. PT.







