
Vladimir Guerrero's 350th home run, a monstrous walk-off blast into the jagged rocks of Angel Stadium against Baltimore Sunday, will likely give the popular outfielder greater visibility in the Major League All-Star balloting.

But the Dominican slugger doesn't exactly need it. A member of one the most potent outfields in the Major Leagues, Guerrero is already fourth in the AL behind New York duo Alex Rodriguez and Derek Jeter, as well as Boston's David Ortiz. He leads all AL outfielders with 578,430 votes.

Teammates Orlando Cabrera and Gary Matthews Jr., although not as big a draw as Guerrero, are playing at a level befitting of such a distinction. Cabrera leads all shortstops with a .988 fielding percentage with only three errors. He has reached base safely in 51 of his 56 games and finished May with an exceptional .372 average while tallying 43 hits.

Matthews Jr., a legitimate threat both in the batter's box and from the outfield, where he mans the center field position, has 23 RBIs in his last 23 games, and has made a smooth transition from leadoff to cleanup hitter. Much like Guerrero did Sunday, Matthews Jr., a .284 hitter, cracked a game-winning two-run, two-out single on Friday against the O's.


Fans can cast their votes for starters up to 25 times with the Monster 2007 All-Star Online Ballot at MLB.com and all 30 club sites until Thursday, June 28, at 8:59 p.m. PT. 

Fans will again be given the opportunity to cast an All-Star vote immediately following the 2007 MLB All-Star Game Selection Show Presented by Chevrolet, which will be televised by Turner Sports on Sunday, July 1. Baseball fans around the world will be able select the final player on each All-Star team via the Monster.com 2007 All-Star Final Vote. 

Selecting the rosters isn't the end of the fun in 2007, either. Concluding the All-Star balloting process, fans will have the opportunity to participate in the official voting for the Ted Williams Most Valuable Player presented by Chevrolet at the All-Star Game via the Monster.com 2007 All-Star Game MVP Vote at MLB.com.

The All-Star Game will be televised nationally by FOX Sports and televised around the world by Major League Baseball International. ESPN Radio will provide exclusive national radio coverage, while MLB.com will offer extensive online coverage and MLB Radio will have exclusive play-by-play coverage of the game on the Internet.






