
ANAHEIM -- The Angels' Ervin Santana won 28 games before his 24th birthday. There are pitchers in the Hall of Fame who didn't do that.
Burdened by recent disappointments, Santana is getting the distinct impression others see only what he's done lately -- or hasn't done -- overlooking the promise built on performance.
"A lot of people only see what you do wrong," Santana said, having done a lot of things right in Tuesday night's 4-1 decision over the Mariners powered by Shea Hillenbrand's two-run homer in the fourth inning.
"People don't think about what happened before," Santana added. "They don't think about the good things you've done. They only talk about the bad ones."
Coming off another rough road outing, this time in Detroit, Santana looked shaky at the outset in front of 38,174 at Angel Stadium.
Ichiro Suzuki extended his hitting streak to 22 games with a leadoff single, and two batters later he was scoring on Jose Guillen's fielder's-choice grounder.
Down 1-0 out of the chute, Santana walked two hitters, loading the bases with one out. Here came pitching coach Mike Butcher bearing words of confidence, looking to douse any negative thoughts.
"He told me those were good pitches, to be patient and make your pitches," Santana said.
Finding the resolve -- and the elixir -- he needed, Santana got a double-play grounder from Kenji Johjima, handled by second baseman Howie Kendrick.
Orlando Cabrera's double and Robb Quinlan's two-out single brought the Angels even in the bottom of the first against southpaw Ryan Feierabend, making his fifth Major League appearance and first of the season.
The Angels took the lead in the fourth when Quinlan doubled on a fly ball lost by Ichiro in left-center field, and Hillenbrand lifted his third homer of the season into the left-field seats.
They added a run in the fifth when Reggie Willits and Cabrera singled, and Gary Matthews Jr.'s infield out delivered Willits.
"To know you had a bad day and pick it up again and handle business ... that's the difference between pitchers on the middle of the road and the really good ones," Matthews said of Santana. "You've got to have a good memory in this game -- but you've also got to have a short memory."
Santana faced 24 hitters after working through the first-inning disturbance. The Mariners managed two singles, nothing more. Scot Shields and Francisco Rodriguez took care of the final two innings, K-Rod notching his 17th save in 18 opportunities.
The Angels were back in first place by 4 1/2 games in the American League West, and the Ervin Santana who won 12 games at 22 and 16 games at 23 was back in business.
"He's going to keep evolving as a pitcher," manager Mike Scioscia said. "It's the first time in his career he's had to really focus in on some major adjustments. He's on the right track. It's not like you can flip a switch."
Santana's home and road splits are impossible to ignore, as much as he would like to do that. He's 23-6 in his career at Angel Stadium, 9-16 in all other ballparks.
"I pitch the same, no different, on the road and at home," he said.
"It's one of those things in baseball you can't explain," said catcher Mike Napoli.
Napoli, who called Santana's pitches, had his 14-game hitting streak disappear with a line drive that sent third baseman Adrian Beltre to his knees, his glove hand burning, in the eighth inning.
"It's nothing I said or anyone said," Napoli said, asked what role he had in Santana's transformation after the rocky start. "He just went out and found himself and started throwing strikes to both sides of the plate, using his off-speed stuff. He battled out there."
In snapping the Mariners' season-high four-game winning streak, the Angels populated the basepaths, Cabrera getting three hits, leadoff man Willits singling twice. But Feierabend made pitches when he needed them -- and got one spectacular catch from Ichiro robbing Vladimir Guerrero of extra bases in the fifth with two aboard.
Seattle manager Mike Hargrove walked Guerrero intentionally his first two at-bats, and Guerrero walked again in the eighth in front of Matthews' double.
"I hate to intentionally walk people in the first two or three innings," Hargrove said, "but this guy is so good. He really is so good."






