
ANAHEIM -- It was quite a day at Angel Stadium on Wednesday.



The Angels wrapped up their fourth division title in five years by becoming the fifth-fastest team in Major League history, by date, to clinch a division in a 162-game season. The club also reached the three million mark for attendance on the season.


Of the 39,173 that watched the Angels defeat the Yankees, 4-2, nearly 10,000 stayed to watch the Mariners  down the Rangers, 8-7, about an hour after Francisco Rodriguez wrapped up his 56th save.



It was a climactic ending to an anticlimactic division race, but the fans that stayed were treated to quite a show, as the celebration spilled onto the field.



"The fans are all a great inspiration to me," Chone Figgins said. "It's a great thing to get so many to come out to support us."



Manager Mike Scioscia, who maintained that he didn't know the Angels' magic number to clinch, took part in the celebration, but said the team's mentality won't change despite winning the division.



"We're going to play baseball," Scioscia said. "We've got a game tomorrow. We're coming out to play hard and get after it. That's all we can do."



But while Scioscia had already shifted his focus to the next game, his team rejoiced in the clubhouse for close to an hour.



It was a worthy celebration, but the players understood that there are still 17 games left on the schedule, and that the health of injured middle infielders Howie Kendrick and Erick Aybar remains a concern.



"This is goal No. 1, but we still have a lot of work ahead of us," Jered Weaver said. "We still have guys that need to get healthy and back on track. We know we can play much better as a club right now. We just want to get rolling into the postseason."



Torii Hunter stressed the importance of using the remaining games to get into that playoff frame of mind.



"Guys are going to work on what they'll do in the playoffs," said Hunter, who donned swimmer's goggles and referred to himself as "Michael Phelps" in the celebration. "We're going to focus on what we need to do to be successful in the postseason. I'm going to have playoff at-bats. We want to finish with the best record in the league and make sure we're ready for the postseason."



It has been a transitional year for Hunter, who signed a five-year, $90 million deal with the Angels in the offseason after spending 11 seasons with the Twins. But Hunter, who has been one of the team's vocal leaders, wouldn't have had it any other way.



"This offseason, I was a scout," Hunter said. "I looked at different teams and different lineups, and the Angels were the team that fit me. I'm pretty excited about coming over here. I've always respected these guys and admired them."






"It's definitely different than taking it down to the wire, but we still have games to play, and you still want to do well. We're definitely built for the long haul."




-- Garret Anderson







Hunter, however, isn't the only new addition offensively who has greatly benefited the Angels. First baseman Mark Teixeira, who was acquired from the Braves via trade on July 29, has batted .362 with nine home runs and 33 RBIs in 38 games with the Angels.



But Teixeira isn't concerned with the numbers he's had since the trade as much as he's focused on the postseason. In his six years as a Major Leaguer, Teixeira has never experienced a playoff game.



"I've never made it the postseason, and now I can get that chance," Teixeira said. "I've always been jealous of the Angels as a Ranger. They won every year and did it the right way. I'm glad to be a part of it now."



The Angels broke the club and American League West records for fastest to clinch, but ace John Lackey sees it no differently than the other three division-title winning teams that's he's been a part of.



"I think it's always special, no matter when it happens," Lackey said. "But I think it's going to benefit us. I think a couple of guys are beat up and could use some rest. It's going to be a great thing for us."



But don't expect the Angels to shut down their players down the stretch. They still want to earn home-field advantage during the playoffs. Elder statesmen such as Garret Anderson won't let his teammates take it easy the rest of the way.



"It's definitely different than taking it down to the wire, but we still have games to play, and you still want to do well," Anderson said. "We're definitely built for the long haul."



Anderson's mentality as a 15-year veteran with the Angels has even rubbed off on Teixeira, who has been with the team for just over a month.



"We want to keep winning and keep it going through October," Teixeira said. "We're happy to get this over with and focus on the rest of the season and the playoffs, but it doesn't matter who we play then."






