
ANAHEIM -- "Credit the Orioles," said Mike Scioscia. "A lot of those hits
were maybe seeing-eye hits in those couple of innings. But they stayed
inside the ball, they bunched some hits and took the lead and we're able to
hold on."

The Angels manager seemed to put into a few simple words the essence of
Sunday's wild-and-whacky game in which the Orioles snapped the
Angels' four-game winning streak with a 7-6 victory before 40,856 fans at
Angel Stadium.
Miguel Tejada's two-run single, a flair to right field off  Scot Shields,
scored two runs and capped a four-run seventh inning as the Orioles erased
the Angels' 4-2 lead.
That seventh included a check-swing single to right by Kevin Millar and a
double by Melvin Mora off Angels starter and loser Kelvim Escobar
(5-5).
Kurt Birkins (1-0), the first of four Baltimore relievers following starter
Kris Benson, got the win by striking out two batters in the sixth.

Baltimore closer Chris Ray came on in the eighth inning with one run in and
two runners on and no outs courtesy of LaTroy Hawkins, who gave up
consecutive singles to Vlad Guerrero, Garret Anderson and Kendy Morales.

Ray got Tim Salmon on an infield popup and induced Dallas McPherson to hit
into a 4-6-3 double play to end the inning.

Things got even tougher for Ray and the Orioles in the Angels ninth.
Angels pinch-hitter Erick Aybar led off with a triple and scored on Adam
Kennedy's groundout.  Ray walked Chone Figgins, gave up a bloop single to
Orlando Cabrera and walked Guerrero on four pitches to load the bases.

Anderson smashed Ray's first-pitch fast ball right at second baseman Roberts,
who turned a 4-6-3 game-ending double play.

"You're not going to see a ball hit harder than the one Garret hit to end
the ball game," said Scioscia. "It's a shame, but that's baseball.  Garret
squared up a ball that if it's five feet to either side we're going to win
the ballgame, but they turned the double play and got the win."

"I got the pitch I wanted, but I hit it to second base into a double play,"
said Anderson matter of factly.  "He [Ray] was throwing fastballs pretty
much the whole time he was out there so there was a pretty good chance I was
going to get one."

Anderson's hard-hit ball to second and Aybar's inning-opening double off the
right-field wall were in sharp contrast to many of the Orioles' 13 hits.

"There were a lot of blooper hits," said Escobar, when asked if he was
tired. "I felt good. When you give up some of the hits I did today there's
not much you can do. I think I gave up eight hits and I don't think they hit
the ball hard once.
"It's a tough loss," said Escobar. "They way I felt I was cruising, but
those things happen. I wish I could throw the ball every game like I did
today. I felt great out there."
Escobar gave way to Shields with the Angels up, 4-3 and runners on first and
second with one out.
Scioscia had a decision to make after Mora's double tied the game and put
runners on second and third. Did he want to walk Tejada intentionally and
face Javy Lopez with the bases loaded?

"The matchup [Shields vs. Tejada] was okay," said Scoiscia. "I think Shields
needed the open base than having to pitch to Lopez with the bases loaded and
be forced to come into the zone if he fell behind. He had some leeway with
Miguel and unfortunately he was able to fist that ball over to the
right side and get it there. He made a good pitch, it was just one of those
hits that was a carbon copy in that inning."

As wild as the finish was, so too was the beginning and middle of the game,
especially the Angels fifth inning, where Orioles manager Sam Perlozzo got
ejected.
The Angels, who battled back from 1-0 and 2-1 deficits, had taken their 4-2
lead with two runs in the fifth.
Jose Molina opened that inning with a bunt base hit down the third base
line, a theme that would be repeated.

Kennedy followed with a single to center. Figgins, trying to sacrifice the
runners, laid down a bunt down the third base line that just went foul.

On the next pitch, Figgins bunted again along the third base line.
Orioles catcher Ramon Hernandez came out from his crouch, ran up and gloved
the ball as he thought it had gone foul again. However, home plate umpire
Tim Timmons -- despite the fact that some of his view appeared to be blocked by
Hernandez -- ruled a fair ball immediately.
All runners were safe and this brought O's manager Perlozzo steaming out of
the dugout. He gave Timmons an earful and Timmons gave him the boot.
Cabrera came up and hit a sharp grounder to second that looked like a double
play ball. However Cabrera beat the return throw as Molina scored the
go-ahead run. Guerrero followed with a line shot to left field that was
caught but allowed Kennedy to tag and score the Angels fourth run.
Salmon had accounted for the Angels first two runs on a double and a
sacrifice fly while Morales added an RBI single in the eighth that only set
up the dramatic ninth inning drama.






