
ANAHEIM -- Sometimes it takes a fight to bring a team together.

But if the Angels are to find out if that piece of baseball wisdom proves true, they'll have to take it on the road because a roll in the dirt with the A's on Tuesday did nothing to prevent their fifth straight loss.

If any momentum was gained, then it was by the A's, who bookended a three-run first and a six-run ninth to register a 10-3 rout of the Angels on a sunny afternoon to sweep the series.

But one thing is certain: What once was a friendly rivalry took a different turn Tuesday.

"If there wasn't bad blood before, there is now. That's for sure," said John Lackey, who was ejected along with A's catcher Jason Kendall for their part in a good old-fashioned benches-clearing donnybrook in the sixth inning.

A's third baseman Eric Chavez, who hit a three-run homer in the top of the first inning, acknowledged that the American League West rivalry just took another step.

"It's always been kind of intense but it's always been clean, too," Chavez said. "I like every guy over there. There's not a guy I don't like. But I'm sure this won't be the end of it, that's for sure."

Angels manager Mike Scioscia was ejected in the ninth after Robb Quinlan was hit by a pitch from A's reliever Chad Gaudin. A's second baseman Mark Ellis was hit by pitches twice in the game.

The A's, winners of five straight, head back home to play a five-game homestand, while the Angels hit the road for nine games that will take them to Detroit, Toronto and Chicago. The A's and Angels will meet next in a three-game series in Oakland, July 7-9.

The dust-up occurred in the top of the sixth inning with the bases loaded on singles by Frank Thomas and Bobby Crosby and a one-out walk by Dan Johnson and the A's leading 3-1. Lackey then threw an inside breaking pitch to Kendall, who was expecting an outside fastball and said he was diving out over the plate.

Lackey shouted at Kendall, who charged the mound. Players from both dugouts and both bullpens ran onto the field and the ensuing scrum lasted several minutes. A few punches were thrown, but the two principals were the only ones ejected.

Scioscia took exception to losing his pitcher under the circumstances.

"That is unwarranted that he got tossed," Scioscia said. "An opposition batter charges the mound and our pitcher gets tossed? That is an absolute joke."

Kendall has been hit 201 times in his career, including once by Lackey last Sept. 26 in Oakland. The two exchanged words then, but it went a step further this time.

"Jason has a history of being out on the plate and keeping his elbow guard on the plate," Lackey said. "I told him to move it back and he came after me. I was surprised, but I'm cool with that."

Kendall, whose dad, Fred, played 12 seasons in the Majors, wears his ultra-competitive style on his uniform much like Lackey. When he heard what he described as curse words, he admittedly snapped.

"People don't understand how intense it is out there," Kendall said. "These kinds of things are gonna happen every once in a while."

Jeff Mathis was behind the plate for the Angels and tried unsuccessfully to restrain Kendall and protect his pitcher. Kendall reached the mound and the three of them hit the dirt.

"I heard some words being said, but I don't know what was said," Mathis said. "The ball didn't hit him and he just took off."

Home-plate umpire Dale Scott, who ejected both players and later Scioscia, explained why he took action.

Scioscia "didn't think Lackey should be run because it was Kendall charging [his] guy," Scott said. "I said, 'Well, you're right. Kendall shouldn't be charging him.' But if Lackey doesn't aggressively yell at him, like he did, and almost challenge him in his body language, then Kendall doesn't go after him. He has to take some responsibility for the reasons these teams are on the field fighting."

After play resumed, with Brendan Donnelly pitching in place of Lackey and Adam Melhuse inheriting Kendall's 1-0 count, Melhuse hit a bouncer to short to score Thomas on a fielder's choice for a 4-1 score.

The Angels pulled within a run in the bottom half of the inning on Vladimir Guerrero's seventh home run of the season, a two-run shot, but the A's scored six in the ninth, highlighted by Crosby's three-run homer, to put the game out of reach.

The bottom half brought one last episode to the afternoon when Quinlan was hit with an 0-2, two-out pitch on the left elbow. Howie Kendrick came on to pinch-run for Quinlan, who was scheduled for an X-ray.

"I think it was pretty obvious that Robb Quinlan got hit on purpose and I don't know why that would be," Scioscia said. "We are dumbfounded what that message would be, but it was pretty obvious that he was hit on purpose."

Lackey (3-2) allowed four runs on six hits and two walks over 5 1/3 innings. The right-hander also struck out six. Brad Halsey (1-0) filling in for the injured Rich Harden, started for Oakland and allowed three runs on five hits and three walks over 5 1/3 innings to pick up the win.






