
ANAHEIM -- When the Angels are clinging to a lead late in the game, they have the comfort of knowing that preserving the lead in the ninth inning is just about automatic.



That's because they have Francisco Rodriguez, who has put together one of the finest seasons ever for a closer. He recorded a Major League-record 62 saves, shattering the record of 57 set by Bobby Thigpen with the White Sox in 1990.



It's Rodriguez's mental toughness and ability to get big outs in the ninth inning that has him nominated as one of six finalists for the Pepsi Clutch Player of the Year Award.



Balloting runs through Oct. 19, and the winner will be announced during the MLB Clutch Performer of the Year Award Show on ESPN at 7 p.m. ET on Oct. 22. Fans who vote can win a trip for two to the 2009 All-Star Game in St. Louis.



This award is the culmination of a season-long campaign in which fans voted for six different Clutch Performer of the Month Award winners. Those players included three from the Yankees -- Chien-Ming Wang (April), Jason Giambi (June) and Mike Mussina (July); and the White Sox Carlos Quentin (May) and Milwaukee's CC Sabathia (August).



The nominees each month were selected by a special MLB.com editorial panel, and that is again the case for the season award. No matter who won the monthly awards, this vote is based on a 162-game schedule.



It's one of many awards that Rodriguez is up for, as he was also nominated for the DHL Presents the Major League Baseball Delivery Man of the Year Award. And his manager, Mike Scioscia, believes Rodriguez should be considered for the American League Cy Young and Most Valuable Player awards this season.



"I think a reliever in Francisco's role has more to do with a team's standing than one starting pitcher does," Scioscia said. "He's pitched in 76 games, and a starting pitcher has pitched 30. And he's affected the outcome of 62 games, so that's a major impact on the team. So absolutely, he should be considered for MVP."



Rodriguez isn't quite ready to campaign for any awards. The humble closer would rather defer his success to his teammates.



"It's been an amazing season," Rodriguez said. "I have to thank my teammates for making it possible. You can't close games unless your teammates give you the opportunity."



When Rodriguez gets the opportunity, though, rarely does he falter. He converted 62 of 69 save chances this season with a 2.24 ERA in 76 games.



The right-hander lives for tense situations in the ninth inning. He first proved that as a rookie in 2002, when he won five games in the postseason to help the Angels to a World Series title.



Rodriguez, though, has evolved from his years as flame-throwing reliever. The 26-year-old now has two variations of a devastating changeup, as well as refined his delivery to reduce the violence on his arm and lower body.



But the closer's changes this season have come with similar results. He's shown his clutch abilities down the stretch, allowing just four earned runs in 25 appearances in August and September.



"Francisco is in the elite class of pitchers in baseball," Scioscia said. "There aren't many closers in baseball that have the stamina, durability and talent that Francisco has."



Rodriguez was the only closer nominated for the award. The other nominees are Cleveland starting pitcher Cliff Lee, Milwaukee starting pitcher CC Sabathia, St. Louis first baseman Albert Pujols, Houston first baseman Lance Berkman and Minnesota first baseman Justin Morneau.






