
BOSTON -- Fielding the Angels' Game 4 3-2 loss to the Red Sox on a short hop ...

In 
The Angels were left seething in frustration after Jed Lowrie's RBI single in the bottom of the ninth gave the Sox a 3-2 victory in Game 4.

Frozen moment
Erick Aybar missing the squeeze bunt. Reggie Willits caught up between third and home. Jason Varitek running him down, tagging him out and then dropping the ball. Angels manager Mike Scioscia arguing unsuccessfully that Willits should have been safe. A play that will go down in Angels history.

Big number
43 -- The combined number of runners left on base by the Angels during the series.

Game balls
Chone Figgins





He had two hits off Red Sox starter Jon Lester but couldn't get past first base.

Mark Teixeira




He didn't get a hit but had two walks, including one that started the eighth-inning rally. He also had a dazzling diving catch for the second out of the ninth inning, a tremendous play that will be lost in time.

Kendry Morales



He led off the fateful ninth inning with a double and was 2-for-4 as a pinch-hitter during the series.

Sense of October
John Lackey was barking in frustration on the mound after the Angels couldn't turn two on Jacoby Ellsbury's fifth-inning grounder. The Red Sox had runners on the corners, second baseman Howie Kendrick fumbled the ball and had to settle for one out at first base. A second run scored on Dustin Pedroia's double.


Anderson

Lines of the Game
Hitting
Garret Anderson 
4 AB, 0 H, 0 HR, 0 RBI, 0 R
Comment: It was a tough series for the Angels' elder statesman, who had just three singles in 19 at-bats during the series.


Lackey

Pitching
John Lackey
7 IP, 7 H, 2 R, 1 BB, 1 K
Comment: He delivered two well-pitched games in the series. He didn't earn a victory, but this time the Angels were tied with the Red Sox when he left the game.


Hunter
Spoken
"It hurts. We have a good ballclub. It's tough, frustrating. All we can do is go home." -- Torii Hunter


Next step
Pitchers and catchers report in four months.






