
ANAHEIM -- Knowing he can swing only from the left side for now, Chone Figgins told locker mate Garret Anderson he needed to get everything he could from Friday night's game with the Indians throwing left-handers at the Angels on Saturday and Sunday.

Mission accomplished.

Getting his first start in two weeks due to a bruised left wrist bone, Figgins lashed three hits and scored all three runs, including the game-winner in the bottom of the 10th inning of a 3-2 victory that pushed Los Angeles' lead over Seattle to nine games in the American League West.

"I just hope I can continue this through September," said Figgins, the Majors' leading hitter since May 31 with a .403 average. "I'm staying with my approach. I knew I wasn't going to be able to swing as aggressively or see the ball as well as when I was playing. I was not trying to do too much."

An Angel Stadium crowd of 40,020 lifted season attendance past 3 million for the fifth straight season, and the folks got their money's worth.

The win went to Scot Shields, rebounding from a string of rough outings with a stellar one. He struck out three of the four men he faced, leaving the bases loaded in the ninth by gunning down Asdrubal Cabrera.

Moving to 4-5, Shields climbed to the top of the franchise chart for wins by a reliever with 35.

"I've been going through some rough times," Shields said. "Hopefully that's behind me, and I can help the team reach its goal. I said from Day 1, if I ever lose confidence, I'm ready to go home. It was tough, but I was confident as ever."

Not as fortunate was John Lackey, whose second bid for his 17th win unraveled in the bullpen's hands in the late innings, when Ryan Garko jolted Francisco Rodriguez for a solo homer in the ninth.

"It doesn't matter whether I get there or not," Lackey said of the magical 20-win plateau. "I know in my mind I pitched good enough to get there.

"The biggest thing tonight is Scotty pitched well, with confidence. That could be huge down the stretch."

Rafael Betancourt, one of the game's premier relievers this season, suffered the sting of Figgins' blazing bat this time when the third baseman led off the bottom of the 10th with a ringing double into the right-field corner.

Moving to third on Orlando Cabrera's lineout to right, Figgins watched the Tribe walk Anderson intentionally for the third straight time, bringing Morales to the plate. Morales had already grounded into two inning-ending double plays, and the Indians were hoping Betancourt could make it a third.

After going down 0-2 in the count, Morales slashed a slider past first baseman Garko, and the Angels had won their ninth in their past 12 contests while cooling off the Tribe. It was Betancourt's first loss after four wins and only the 12th run he's yielded in 68 innings.

The blown save was Rodriguez's sixth. Shields, who'd yielded the grand slam to Texas' Hank Blalock in Lackey's previous outing, saved his buddy K-Rod by striking out Cabrera.

Lackey watched his one-run lead -- and shutout -- get away in the fifth. Chris Gomez placed a one-out fly ball into no-man's land in right-center, between Gary Matthews Jr. and Reggie Willits, for a double. When Grady Sizemore slashed a single through the left side, the Tribe pulled even.

The Angels had seized the lead against Jake Westbrook in the first.

Figgins drove the fourth pitch he saw into the left-field corner for a double. Cabrera gave himself up with a roller to the right side as Figgins took third. Figgins then strolled home when Anderson slashed a two-strike sinker at the knees -- a good pitch -- past second baseman Asdrubal Cabrera into right-center.

Extending his RBI streak to 12 games, Anderson moved to within two of Tris Speaker's AL record.

Figgins again was Westbrook's nemesis in the sixth, going the other way for a single to left with one out. Off and running, Figgins raced all the way around to score when Cabrera slashed a ball between third baseman Gomez and the bag, carrying into the left-field corner for a double.

Lackey was on his game from the outset, striking out four hitters in the first two innings, two with fastballs, two with benders. A superb play by Maicer Izturis at second, robbing Travis Hafner, helped Lackey out of the first after he'd walked Sizemore leading off.

The Indians threatened with a pair of singles in the fourth, but Lackey preserved his lead when he retired Kenny Lofton to leave two runners stranded.

A perfect seventh ended Lackey's night at 105 pitches. He'd lowered his ERA to 3.18, yielding one earned run on six hits and a walk, striking out six.

"The first four or five innings, I felt as good as I did all year," Lackey said.

Not nearly as good was Rodriguez, whose meltdown was underplayed by the manager and his athletes.

"Frankie, for a long time, was locked in," manager Mike Scioscia said. "He'll get it back. He's just a little off mechanically, just a fraction off."

Lackey came up with K-Rod in 2002 and has seen him evolve into one of the game's premier closers.

"It's not a big deal," Lackey said. "He's been too good for too long. He's done it in big games, playoff series. He'll figure it out when it's time."

Like everyone else, Lackey was impressed by Figgins' ability to come back after a two-week layoff and slash base hits.

"Pretty amazing," Lackey said. "As a hitter, a lot of it is timing. Jumping back in like that ... if I was missing some time, I'd definitely lose some feel. I'd need a start to get back in rhythm. He's having a great year for us, making things happen every time he's in there."

Figgins, who hasn't taken any batting-practice swings from the right side, said he doesn't think he'll play the next two days against southpaws C.C. Sabathia and Aaron Laffey.

"I come back and have to go sit back down," Figgins said, grinning. "That's why I really wanted to get something done tonight."

Mission accomplished.






