
SEATTLE -- Three simple plays nearly defined the Angels' just concluded six-game road trip.

In Oakland last Thursday afternoon, Francisco Rodriguez stabbed at a throw back from catcher Jose Molina in disgust and it cost them a ball game. In the series opener with the Mariners on Friday, Donnelly nearly threw a ball to the backstop in the seventh inning during an intentional walk.

Then on Sunday afternoon, Donnelly figured misery loved company when he short-armed a throw to first that would have ended the seventh and protected a one-run lead.

Instead it led to a tie and set a record for fielding futility by a pitching staff, at least anecdotally over the course of a week, and further led Angels' brass to revisit some basic fundamentals routinely covered in Spring Training.

But with the offense in full go mode, Donnelly's miscue Sunday merely became a footnote when the Angels rallied to a 7-6 win on Darin Erstad's full-count RBI single in the top half of the eighth and Chone Figgins' highlight-reel defensive gem in the bottom of the inning.

"I don't think I've seen a week like this for PFP [pitchers' fielding practice] in my life," manager Mike Scioscia said of the two plays.

Donnelly was slightly more blunt.

"That wasn't me," said Donnelly, who confirmed that PFP has been scheduled for Tuesday afternoon in Anaheim. "That error was committed by the little girl down the street. At least that is how it felt like I was throwing."

Along with their recovery to pick up the win and complete the sweep of the Mariners on Sunday, their second three-game sweep at Safeco Field this season, the Halos reclaimed sole possession of first place in the American League West with the A's falling to the Twins, 2-1, earlier in the day.

"We've seen a lot of good stuff; we definitely made this road trip interesting," said Erstad, who went 2-for-4 with two RBIs on Sunday. "But you go 4-2 in your division and you'll take it."

Angels starter John Lackey struggled early and was shaky late, but was solid enough in the middle innings to keep his team in the ball game as the offense picked up the pitchers Sunday and throughout the series.

Collecting 14 hits, the Angels reached double digits in hits for the third straight day with the usual suspects taking their cuts.

Vladimir Guerrero supplied the big blow in a five-run fifth when he drilled a three-run homer off Mariners reliever Julio Mateo and was followed by Bengie Molina's solo homer. Erstad also provided a sac fly in the frame while Casey Kotchman hit a solo shot in the fourth to get the Angels on the board.

For the weekend, Guerrero went 8-for-14 with three homers and seven RBIs. His blast on Sunday was No. 26 on the year and the 299th of his career.

His presence was certainly felt. Guerrero's two solo homers on Friday were both in the upper deck in left, the first time that had been accomplished by the same player in the same game at Safeco, with the second blow forging a 4-4 tie.

On Sunday, Guerrero turned a one-run deficit into a two-run lead.

"This is why he's incredible with the exception of last month," Scioscia said, referring to July when Guerrero hit .208 but had five homers and 21 RBIs. "He's the type of player that we're not only privileged to have on our team, but to have in baseball."

Tucked in between, but not forgotten by the manager was the effort by Lackey, who allowed three runs on four hits to begin his day and ended it by allowing two runs, one earned, on two hits. Lackey also struck out six batters, the 13th straight start he's had at least six punchouts, and gutted out 6 1/3 innings for a no-decision.

"John putting up those zeros was big," Scioscia said. "It gave us a chance to get back."

But the afternoon will largely be colored by the adventures in fielding that also included a blown pitchout, a wild pitch with all of it ultimately saved by the defensive combo of Figgins and Molina.

Trailing by two runs in the seventh, Ichiro Suzuki drove in Yorvit Torrealba to pull the Mariners within one. Ichiro then stole second, went to third on a wild pitch from Donnelly and scored to tie the game when Donnelly committee the throwing error to first on a two-out comebacker by Willie Bloomquist.

But with one down and Richie Sexson on third in the eighth after the Angels had reclaimed the lead, Yuniesky Betancourt hit a hot smash toward left field, but Figgins went hard to his left to field the ground ball, turned and fired home to Molina, who had to reach back across the line to apply the tag.

"I don't think the character of this club is in question," Scioscia. "I think the execution has gotten a little fuzzy, but that is baseball."






