
TEMPE, Ariz. -- Hank Conger can hit. No, that doesn't do justice to what he can do with a bat in his hands. This guy can mash.

The Angels' first-round pick in the 2006 First-Year Player Draft out of nearby Huntington Beach, Calif., Conger has been smacking balls into gaps and over walls while driving in runs at prodigious clips at each stop along the organizational path that he hopes will lead to Anaheim.

What remains to be seen is how he'll develop and perform behind the plate, his progress defensively having been slowed by shoulder issues.










In Major League camp for the second time, Conger -- a natural comic who entertains teammates with his drop-dead impressions -- is all business. He knows it's an important stage in his career.

"The shoulder is feeling real good," Conger said. "I stayed here in December and January with the physical therapist, and it really helped.

"I'm on a throwing program, and it's going real well. I'm doing long toss now, and I should be doing full activity work real soon ... within days. The most important thing for me is to get ready for the season."

Conger's first big league camp adventure last spring brought bad news: a small tear was discovered in the labrum of his right shoulder. The decision was made to avoid surgery and let it heal with therapy, which delayed his season by almost two months.

Joining high Class A Rancho Cucamonga in late May, he served as a designated hitter until June 13, when he caught one game and then bruised his left thumb while warming up a pitcher. It wasn't until July 28 that he got back behind the plate.

Despite those physical difficulties, the 6-foot, 205-pound switch-hitter continued to pound baseballs. In 63 games, 10 as a catcher, he hit .303 with 13 homers and 75 RBIs in 294 at-bats. His slugging percentage was .517.

But the really impressive noise came when he was promoted to Double-A Arkansas for the Texas League playoffs. Appearing in all eight games as the team's DH, Conger drove in 13 runs with nine hits, including three doubles and a homer, for the league champions.

"The biggest moment for me was in the championship game against Frisco," he said. "It was the eighth inning or so, and we were down one run, and I drove in two runs. It was 1-1 in the series, so that was pretty big."

At 21, Conger is still maturing physically, and the Angels think he will develop into a quality receiver with the tutelage of one of the acknowledged masters of the craft, manager Mike Scioscia.

"Hank moves well back there and has a strong arm," Scioscia said. "We really like his potential. He's still a young guy, with a lot of talent."

Conger has a fine appreciation of the value of hard work, having watched his father work "a lot of long, hard hours" in oil refineries in Long Beach.

Conger said he has "no clue" where he'll start the season, but early indications are that he'll probably be back at Rancho Cucamonga, honing his defensive skills.

"Hank should have a great future in the game," Scioscia said.






