
ANAHEIM -- Keep that bubbly corked and iced for another day.

On a night of Yankees milestones, Derek Jeter passing Babe Ruth in career hits and Alex Rodriguez overtaking Jeter and Dave Winfield in pinstriped homers, the scene-stealer on Tuesday in a 7-1 Yankees victory was a guy from Mexico making his first Major League start.

The Angels will take another crack at wrapping up the American League West title in Wednesday's series finale, a matinee. A win behind Dustin Moseley, facing Andy Pettitte, coupled with a loss by the second-place Rangers in Seattle would give the Angels their fourth division title in five seasons and seventh in franchise history.

Summoned by the Yankees on Aug. 28 after spending the season at three Minor League levels, wearing uniform No. 91, Alfredo Aceves, a right-hander who throws strikes, outdueled All-Star Ervin Santana  in front of 43,042 at Angel Stadium.

Making his third big league appearance at age 25, Aceves, a native of San Luis Rio Colorado, Mexico, held the Angels to a sixth-inning run while Johnny Damon (two homers) and A-Rod (three-run blast) were powering the Bronx Bombers.

Santana, whose last pitch was driven into the seats in right by Damon with one out in the seventh, fell to 15-6 with a loss that kept the Angels' magic number at two.

"Ervin had good stuff and pitched better than the line score is going to show in the morning," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said.

Santana, losing for the first time in eight starts, struck out six and walked one while yielding nine hits and six runs, five earned, in 6 1/3 innings.

Over his past 11 outings, Santana has 85 strikeouts against only 13 walks.

"Everything was good," Santana said. "Sometimes you make good pitches and they hit them, and sometimes you make bad pitches and they miss them. They hit some good pitches tonight. I just missed a little bit, a few inches maybe."

Aceves scattered three hits through five innings before the Angels pieced together a run in the sixth.

Garret Anderson -- who delivered three of the Angels' seven hits -- singled with one out, took third on Mark Teixeira's double and scored on Vladimir Guerrero's infield out.

"I don't think guys have seen him or heard much about him," said Angels shortstop Brandon Wood, hitless in three at-bats against Aceves after delivering two homers and a single in Monday's series opener. "He throws four pitches for strikes -- cutter, slider, 90-91 fastball, change. Maybe he's a little hard to pick up. Q [Robb Quinlan] was the only right-handed-hitter with a hit against him."

The Angels are 0-4 against pitchers making their Major League debuts as starters.

The Yankees settled for one run in the second when A-Rod singled, Jason Giambi was hit by a pitch, and A-Rod scored when Reggie Willits was unable to make a diving catch of Xavier Nady's bloop double to left.

Doing his best work of the night, Santana blew away Hideki Matsui and Robinson Cano on strikes and retired Chad Moeller on a liner to left.

"A couple of balls in the outfield we had a chance to make plays and didn't do it," Scioscia said. "I thought Reggie had a bead on that first ball. It would have been a nice catch. It was a play that could have changed the complexion of the inning" -- A-Rod would have been doubled off second easily -- "but by no stretch of the imagination was that play routine."

Replacing Torii Hunter (tight left quad, day-to-day) in center field in the sixth, Gary Matthews Jr. was unable to hold Jeter's twisting fly ball for a three-base error.

"It's a play I should have made, and for some reason I didn't come up with it," Matthews said. "It's a routine play that I've made before. It's tough because you don't make a play and it puts [Santana] in a really tough position where he's got to try and be perfect. He's been darn near perfect for us, but when you put any pitcher in that position where you don't make a play that you probably should make for him, it can get hairy.

"Unfortunately, it happened tonight. It's part of this game, but it doesn't make you feel any better."

After a walk to Bobby Abreu, Santana's 95-mph fastball was crushed into the seats in right-center by A-Rod.

"It was supposed to be inside," Santana said. "I missed my location back to the middle, and he's a great hitter."

A-Rod, whose single in the second had ended a 13-pitch duel, has 33 homers and 95 RBIs. This was homer No. 206 by Rodriguez as a Yankee, tying him with Giambi for 10th all-time in Yankees history.

Earlier, in the first, Jeter with a single had passed Ruth and moved into second on the franchise hit list with No. 2,519. Lou Gehrig had 2,721.

Damon's homer in the seventh followed Moeller's single.

"That was a good pitch away, and he went and got it," Santana said.

Damon launched a solo shot in the ninth against Justin Speier after Jason Bulger -- on the heels of three perfect innings in Chicago -- had kept the Yankees quiet for 1 2/3 innings.






