
NEW YORK -- If Jered Weaver is dreaming, don't wake him.

Once a Dirtbag but now an Angel, the lanky right-hander continues to belie the fact he's merely 23 and has made a grand total of 11 big-league starts.

Weaver took the mound Sunday and again showed poise well beyond his years as the Angels grabbed a 5-3 win from the Yankees.

That extended his record to 8-0 and Weaver now stands to link his name with Hall of Famer Whitey Ford, who holds the American League record of nine wins without a loss to open a career.

"He knows how to pitch," said Adam Kennedy, who knocked in a run in the first inning. "Somewhere along the way he was taught, and he listened."

Not listening were the Angels, who have effectively ignored the ghosts of Yankee Stadium by winning eight of the past 12 games they've played here and increasing their overall record against the Yankees to 53-50 since 1996, the only team with a winning record against New York in that span.

"It is more about being a professional baseball player and not being intimidated than it is about not being intimidated by Yankee Stadium," said manager Mike Scioscia, regarding their seemingly cool demeanor here.

Sunday was also the Angels' second win of the four-game series, which concludes Monday night. Juan Rivera helped pace the Angels by going 2-for-5 with two RBIs, while Chone Figgins went 3-for-4 with a leadoff home run in the first.

It was Figgins' second leadoff home run this season and the fifth of his career. The victory allowed the Angels to remain 4 1/2 games back of the A's in the AL West.

But the Yankees made it interesting late when Alex Rodriguez and Jason Giambi hit back-to-back solo homers with two out in the bottom of the ninth off Scot Shields, which brought Francisco Rodriguez in from the 'pen to earn his 30th save.

Yankees starter Chien-Ming Wang (13-5) allowed five runs on a career-high 13 hits to take his first loss since July 3. The right-hander also walked two and struck out three.

Weaver set the tone by overcoming a pitch count that rose quickly in the early innings and also by holding his emotions in check after not getting the call on a number of pitches.

If that wasn't enough to crank up the pressure, Weaver was handed the task of facing a patient lineup and performing on the game's biggest stage.

"I know it is going to happen, but it is a matter of letting it roll off your shoulders and not let it bother you," Weaver said. "As a young pitcher, you have to get into your groove until they know what you're throwing."

Weaver had rattled off seven wins in his first seven starts and was poised to join Fernando Valenzuela in 1981 as the first rookie to win his first eight starts. Then came a start in Boston, which began a string of three no-decisions. Weaver pitched well enough to win that game, but the Red Sox rallied against the Angels' bullpen to win in extra innings.

That start was a learning process in more ways than one. Not only did it underscore the fact that not every game ends with a "W," but it demonstrated what it takes to handle a lineup that grinds it out.

"We talked to him after his start in Boston and I think he got a little taste of it," Kennedy said. "You're not going to get the pitches with hitters like that. You can't nibble -- you have to get after it. It is a different animal; it is a different beast."

Weaver's first inning was impressive from one standpoint: He struck out the side. But he needed 26 pitches before he could return to the dugout. And when Giambi singled to lead off the bottom of the second, Weaver was in a tight spot. But he struck out Jorge Posada and induced a double-play ball out of Robinson Cano.

Derek Jeter and Johnny Damon both worked two-out walks in the third, but Weaver was able to get Bobby Abreu to fly out. Weaver then cruised through the fourth and gave up his lone run of the day when Craig Wilson homered with one out in the fifth.

Nearing the end of his limit, Weaver allowed a leadoff single to Jeter in the sixth, but Abreu bounced into a fielder's choice and Rodriguez hit into a double play to end the threat.

"He was making a lot of pitches and they were making him work," Scioscia said of Weaver, who walked three batters while striking out eight. "For him to get six innings with the way he started, [pitching coach Bud Black] and I felt he wouldn't be able to go longer than five."

But his ability to handle the pressure did not come as a surprise.

"Outside of the fact of not having a lot of innings under his belt and the fact we weren't sure about his stamina, he's pitching like a 10-year vet," Scioscia said

The Angels handed Weaver an early lead with three runs in the first. After Figgins' homer, Howie Kendrick and Orlando Cabrera both singled and scored on consecutive RBI singles by Rivera and Kennedy. Rivera knocked in Figgins in the fifth, while Kendrick picked up his first RBI since Aug. 2 with a line single in the sixth.

Next up for Weaver is attempting to equal Ford's AL mark, as he tries to become the first rookie to open 9-0 since Florida's Livan Hernandez in 1997.

"Let's get there first," Weaver said while having difficulty suppressing a smile. "I'm not going to worry about that now."






