
ANAHEIM -- Francisco Rodriguez goes into Sunday's series finale against the Mariners at Angel Stadium with a set of numbers that don't seem to compute.

He has appeared in nine games and saved seven of them, blowing one save opportunity. A spectacular leaping catch of Richie Sexson's drive by center fielder Torii Hunter saved K-Rod in Friday night's series opener, preserving a 5-4 victory.

In 8 1/3 innings, Rodriguez has yielded nine hits and seven walks (one intentional) while striking out seven men. Clearly, he has not been the dominant K-Rod of recent seasons, and media and fans are wondering if he's in decline.

Rodriguez hears the concerns and insists he does not share them.

"One thing I've learned in this game is that it's not how you start, it's how you finish," K-Rod said. "It doesn't matter if you throw 10 innings and strike out every hitter you face to start the season. At the end, it's how you finish. That's what everyone remembers.

"I've had some bumps in the road. Every ballplayer has that. It's better to have that earlier in the year than later. I know my numbers are going to be there. I have no doubt."

K-Rod has endured pain in both ankles, and he has implemented a new, modified delivery to reduce stress in his landing. He doesn't buy the popular theory that the new delivery has taken several mph off his fastball and that his breaking ball isn't as crisp as it should be.

"I was making an adjustment," he said. "I did it. After that, I started feeling comfortable. My ankles are stronger every day."

Manager Mike Sciosica keeps insisting he's not worried about K-Rod, who is pitching on a one-year, $10 million contract and is eligible for free agency after the season.

"I don't look at him as a guy on the decline," Scioscia said. "He has plenty in his arm, plenty of fastball. He's hitting his spots, and the ball is coming out of his hand pretty good. He's not quite where he'll be, but we expect big things from him in the future."

Joe Saunders, who went eight innings on Friday for his third win courtesy of Hunter and K-Rod, thought the closer looked good despite Sexson's drive with two outs and one runner aboard.

"Watching TV [in the clubhouse], his velocity looked better tonight," Saunders said Friday. "His stuff looked filthy. He's going to keep getting better and better."


Pitching matchup
LAA: RHP Dustin Moseley (1-1, 7.80 ERA)
Moseley gave up four runs on seven hits in four innings and did not figure in the decision Tuesday, as the Angels beat the Rangers in Arlington. He will be facing the Mariners for the first time this season and for the first time in his career as a starter. In four career relief appearances against Seattle, Moseley has posted a 1-0 record and 0.84 ERA, allowing only one run on three hits in 10 2/3 innings.

SEA: RHP Miguel Batista (1-2, 6.35 ERA)
Batista, a team-high 16-game winner last season, finally won his first game Tuesday, 11-6, over the Royals. He went five innings, allowing seven hits and four runs. He said afterward that he had a "dead arm," but it wasn't serious. It stemmed from a back injury in Spring Training. He had been unable to get into his usual routine between starts. He is 5-4 with a 5.60 ERA in 13 appearances against the Angels.

Tidbits
Middle reliever Chris Bootcheck, who sustained a strained oblique during the spring, was evaluated on Saturday by the medical staff and could be activated on Sunday, Scioscia said. Bootcheck made his third rehab appearance for Class A Rancho Cucamonga on Friday, working one scoreless inning. He has allowed one unearned run and two hits in five innings, walking two while striking out six hitters. ... Hunter, who served as the designated hitter on Saturday night after his game-saving catch on Friday night, might be rested on Sunday. The center fielder still has some residual pain in his left big toe, which he injured in a collision with the wall in Seattle last weekend.

Tickets
 Buy tickets now to catch the game in person. 
On the Internet
 MLB.TV
 Gameday Audio
&#149;  Gameday
&#149;  Official game notes

On television
&#149; KCOP

On radio
&#149; KLAA 830, KWKW 1330 (Espa&ntilde;ol)


Up next
&#149; Monday: Off-day
&#149; Tuesday: Angels (Jered Weaver, 1-3, 3.60) at Red Sox (Josh Beckett, 2-1, 5.12), 4:05 p.m. PT 
&#149; Wednesday: Angels (Jon Garland, 2-2, 4.81) at Red Sox (Daisuke Matsuzaka, 4-0, 3.14), 4:05 p.m. PT 






