
CINCINNATI -- The big man in the lineup and the big man on the pitching staff pooled their impressive resources on Wednesday night and came up with something big -- a 6-3 win over the Reds that snapped a two-game Angels losing streak.
Snapping out of a mini-slump, Vladimir Guerrero cracked three hits and drove in four runs while John Lackey became the first 10-game winner in the Majors, delivering six innings in front of 29,655 at Great American Ball Park.
In relief of Lackey, who moved to 10-4, Scot Shields worked two scoreless innings (striking out the side in the eighth) and Francisco Rodriguez pitched an overpowering ninth inning for his 20th save in 21 opportunities.
"It's nice," Lackey said of reaching double-digit wins in mid-June, "but more important is that we stopped a losing streak. That means more than any personal thing."
The top three in the Angels' batting order -- Chone Figgins, Orlando Cabrera and Guerrero -- combined for eight hits, five runs scored and five RBIs.
Those numbers could have been even more impressive. Figgins' scorching line drive with runners at second and third in the seventh was stabbed by a diving Edwin Encarnacion at third, ending the inning.
With hits in his first two at-bats, Figgins ran his hitting streak to 12 games, one shy of his career high. He's hitting .491 (26-for-53)during the streak.
Cabrera also continued his torrid pace with three singles, raising his average to .339, while Guerrero's two doubles and single brought his average to .336 after an 0-for-14 spell.
"You get into a slump," Guerrero said through translator Jose Mota, "and little by little you find out what you were doing wrong."
Basically, he said, he snapped out of it by "seeing better pitches and swinging at better pitches."
Garret Anderson returned to the lineup with a pair of singles, including a two-strike RBI bullet through the middle against lefty Jon Coutlangus in the eighth to push the lead to 5-3.
"It hasn't been just the top [of the order] -- it's everybody," manager Mike Scioscia said of the Angels' recent offensive eruption. "What we're seeing is a nice blend of offense, top to bottom."
Scioscia alluded to line-drive outs by Gary Matthews Jr. to center field and Casey Kotchman to shortstop during a two-run sixth inning that put the Angels back in front, 4-3, Guerrero's two-run double the telling blow.
"You can't hit the ball any harder than Gary and Kotch did," Scioscia said. "And Figgy in the seventh, that's a heckuva play by Encarnacion. That's two runs there."
Lackey was content to make it through six innings with a lead, giving up three runs (one earned) on three hits, a walk and two hit batsmen, striking out four.
"They were both on their game," Lackey said of Shields and K-Rod, who combined to strike out five of the 10 batters they faced.
Their final three innings were marred only by a one-out single in the eighth by Brandon Phillips. Shields responded by striking out Ken Griffey Jr. (looking) and Adam Dunn, who swung through a slider.

Complete coverage &gt;  

"He put together a heck of an at-bat," Shields said of Dunn.  "He just missed some balls. He very easily could have tied it up.
"Nap [catcher Mike Napoli] came out and we talked about it. We got him to swing over the top of a slider."
Figgins manufactured a first-inning run against losing pitcher Kyle Lohse (3-8) when he doubled leading off the game, advanced on Cabrera's infield out and scored on Guerrero's grounder.
Cabrera's single and Guerrero's double into the left-field corner made it 2-0 in the fourth.
The Reds then loaded the bases on one hit batsman (Phillips, disputed by Lackey), a walk to Griffey and a single by Dunn. Figgins fielded Encarnacion's chopper and threw home, the ball hitting baserunner Phillips and bounding away for an error.
Lackey kept the damage to a minimum when Kotchman started a 3-6-1 double play on Josh Hamilton's grounder, Griffey scoring. A superb play by Figgins behind the bag ended the inning on Alex Gonzalez's grounder, Kotchman handling the skip throw.
Scott Hatteberg's homer to right-center in the fifth had the Reds in front, 3-2. The Angels quickly reclaimed the lead in the sixth. Figgins walked and moved to third on Cabrera's hit-and-run single. Both men scored on Guerrero's ringing double to left-center.
Cabrera and Guerrero singled in the eighth in front of Anderson's RBI single. Reggie Willits created a run in the ninth when he singled, stole second, moved to third on a fly ball and scored on Cabrera's sacrifice fly.
"You can't bring Vladimir Guerrero up with guys on base in front all night," Reds manager Jerry Narron said. "All night long, there were guys on. It's tough to get [Guerrero] out when there are guys on base in front of him."
From the Angels' perspective, that sounds very much like an enjoyable night on the town.all






