
ANAHEIM -- Left-handed reliever Jake Woods earned his first Major League win Saturday, benefiting from six Angels runs after he got A's cleanup hitter Erubiel Durazo to pop up to end a five-run fifth inning.

Woods, 23, has just seven Major League innings under his belt, but he keeps finding himself in game-turning situations like Saturday's because he's the only southpaw in the Angels bullpen.

Durazo is a .261 lifetime hitter against lefties with a .424 slugging average; against righties, he's hit .289 and slugged .513. No wonder Woods got the call.

"I was obviously gonna go after the guy with my best stuff," Woods said. "If he hits it, he hits it."

Durazo hit it, but it was in the air for an inning-ending popup. Lefties are 1-for-12 against Woods this season.

Of course, the Angels place less emphasis on a pitcher's handedness than any other Major League club, so Woods isn't dressing in red and white every day just because he throws with his left hand. He only made the club out of Spring Training because of injuries, but the last three times he's pitched, the Angels have been tied or trailing by two or fewer runs.

"Jake Woods is a guy who was kind of on the bubble, ended up making the club and created a role for himself," manager Mike Scioscia said. "Woods has pitched very well."

And, with the way he's throwing right now -- eight baserunners, two runs and seven strikeouts in seven innings -- Woods is making his position more and more secure within the Angels' pitching-rich organization.

"It's something that you look forward to," he said of his first win. "Hopefully, there are many more to come."

McPherson's maturation: Third baseman Dallas McPherson has started five of the Angels' six games since his recall, hitting .188. He's hit a double, walked once, scored three times and driven in a run.

He's also struck out eight times in 16 at-bats, after striking out 186 times in 561 at-bats last year in the Minor and Major Leagues. Hitting coach Mickey Hatcher said the punchout totals concern everyone, but that McPherson, just 24, deserves some latitude.

"He's a special individual, and with special individuals, you sometimes have to give them a few years and not keep changing everything with the kid," Hatcher said. "I think a lot of his strikeouts are because he doesn't know the pitchers. He's gotta look at a lot of film."

Despite all the swings-and-misses last year, McPherson launched a personal-best 43 homers, including three with the Angels. Given the dearth of true sluggers in the Angels lineup, Scioscia is hopeful that McPherson can get hot and add a serious power threat to the bottom of the lineup.

"Mac has the right approach, I think he's bringing his game here," Scioscia said. "You have to guard against frustration of a guy getting out of his game, which really accelerates a negative spiral."

In other words? Swing away, Dallas.

Bootcheck's tough luck: While Woods remained on the 25-man roster Sunday when Kelvim Escobar was activated, right-hander Chris Bootcheck was not as fortunate. Despite allowing just two hits and two walks in five scoreless innings while with the Angels, the 26-year-old was optioned to Triple-A Salt Lake.

"Chris Bootcheck has shown he's ready for the challenge, but we don't have a role," Scioscia said. "There are other guys we have in Triple-A that are ready for the challenge of the Major Leagues, but we just don't have a role for them.

"Sometimes, touching the Major Leagues is a lot easier than forging a role for yourself."

Too early for second guesses: After a rough start Saturday night, Paul Byrd is 1-2 with a 5.61 ERA in four starts. Fellow starter John Lackey has also struggled, going 1-1 with a 6.64 ERA. Scioscia, though, isn't concerned.

"There's no consensus to how these guys are going to perform after four games," Scioscia said. "In 2002, Jarrod [Washburn] had a very tough beginning, and ended up winning 18 games."

Injury timetable: Scioscia said the rehabilitation of catcher Bengie Molina and reliever Bret Prinz are progressing without any setbacks.

Molina has begun running a treadmill and should return shortly after he becomes eligible on May 3, while Prinz will throw off a mound when the Angels are in New York and could begin a Minor League rehabilitation assingment in approximately two weeks.

On deck: The Angels have an off day Monday, during which they will travel to New York. Tuesday, Bartolo Colon (3-1, 2.60 ERA) will square off against the Yankees' Carl Pavano (1-2, 2.86 ERA) in a marquee matchup.






