
ANAHEIM -- The most productive offensive player in Angels history quietly turned 36 on Monday, befitting his personality. The final day of June traditionally has set Garret Anderson off on some July fireworks displays, a trend he hoped to continue starting on Tuesday night at Angel Stadium against the A's.

After sitting out two games, Anderson was dropped to the No. 6 spot in the order, where he has enjoyed some of his best times over the years. He was looking back to the future, starting by trying to hone in on the deliveries of hard-throwing Rich Harden of the A's.

Anderson is a .322 career hitter in July, his best month except for October, when he has hit .373 in only 59 at-bats.

"I'm the type of player who benefits from playing every day and getting to 250, 300 at-bats under [my] belt," Anderson said when asked about his history of turning up the volume in July. "It's also a time when the weather's warmer, which helps. Early in my career, I struggled with cold weather. But that's really not the case any more."

Anderson struggled to find holes and green space in June, batting .188 in 80 at-bats. This shaved his season average to .255 with sub-standard slugging (.372) and on-base (.289) percentages.

It was in July last season that he began to catch fire, hitting .329 and finding a groove that carried the Angels to the finish line with a flourish. He had six homers and 30 RBIs in August and five homers and 22 RBIs in September, ending the season with 18 homers, 80 RBIs and a .297 average that was right on his career mark.

"We've got a lot of confidence in what Garret's going to bring," manager Mike Scioscia said. "Hopefully, he'll get comfortable in the batter's box. We saw it in streaks in the month of May [when he batted .343], but he's been struggling lately.

"There are some things in Garret's game he's searching for that he had when he was driving in 120 runs. He might not [return] to that level, but he can hit in the middle of a championship-caliber lineup."

Batting sixth stirred memories for Anderson of the days when he hit behind Tim Salmon, Mo Vaughn and Troy Glaus, among others -- those glory years of 2000 through 2003 when he averaged 30 homers and 120 RBIs.

"There was an abundance of guys on base in front of me," Anderson said, grinning. "When you're getting 180-plus hits, you're going to drive in some runs. I've got [1,243] RBIs and never hit third or fourth [consistently] in my career."

Anderson has done some of his best work over his career against the A's, batting .321 with 24 homers and 113 RBIs in 196 games. He came into Tuesday's game batting .333 against Harden with one homer in 27 at-bats, walking six times.






