
PEORIA, Ariz. -- As the days come off the calendar -- two weeks left in the Cactus and Grapefruit circuits -- tensions begin to rise for a wide range of players in every Major League camp bidding for tickets to The Show.

The talent-rich Angels don't have as many openings on their 25-man roster as most clubs, but they do have some valuable roles to be filled -- and nobody has to remind the candidates it's time to make their big push.











"Competition is good for a club," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "It brings out the best in players. It might not be an ideal situation for some of our players, but our depth is valuable to us."


With Jon Garland having departed and Ervin Santana and Kelvim Escobar ticketed for the 15-day disabled list to open the season, two rotation slots are available behind John Lackey, Joe Saunders and Jered Weaver.

Dustin Moseley, Shane Loux and Nick Adenhart are the primary contenders, with Anthony Ortega hoping to make a few strong closing statements in spite of a late start because of a tender arm.

Moseley was the front-runner coming in, having delivered a total of 18 starts for Scioscia the past two seasons. The right-hander from Texarkana, Ark., has done nothing to harm his case.

Fully recovered from elbow surgery following the 2007 season, leading to a painfully inconsistent and frustrating '08, Moseley has shown arm strength and high-quality stuff in his three starts.

Moseley has been better than his hard numbers -- four earned runs, nine hits allowed in nine innings -- suggest. A windblown, gift double cost him two earned runs, the difference between a 2.00 ERA and the 4.00 on the stat sheet. Eight strikes against three walks point to quality stuff and command.

"I'm happy with where I am, physically and with my stuff," Moseley said. "I'm confident I can do the job for this club."

Loux, at 29 and two years older than Moseley, is another veteran right-hander with the poise and skills to handle himself at the Major League level, in Scioscia's judgment.

Loux has been critical of his performances this spring, citing unusual control blips, but he has yielded only one earned run across 10 2/3 innings.

In his most recent outing against the Giants on Monday in Scottsdale, Ariz., Loux showed his resolve. After yielding a leadoff double, he struck out the next three men he faced in his final inning of work.

"In the 13 years of my career," Loux said, "this is only the second time I've had a legitimate chance to make a big league club out of Spring Training.

"One thing I learned early in my career is every time you go to the mound, you pitch for 30 teams. I found a home here with the Angels, but my goal is to pitch in the Major Leagues. I'm fully aware that everybody's watching, and every time you take the mound -- whether it's in Triple-A or a game at Angel Stadium -- you want to get the job done."


Adenhart, one of the gems of the farm system for several years along with Brandon Wood, has rebounded impressively from a disappointing 2008. Knocked around in three starts with the Angels, he let it negatively impact him when he returned to Triple-A Salt Lake.

Adenhart, 23, has the stuff and the temperament of a top-shelf Major League starter. The only question is when it will happen. Given that neither Moseley nor Loux has options left and most likely would be lost if they're sent down, Adenhart would have to blow everyone away to be in the opening-week rotation.

While he has been good enough to draw the praise of Scioscia and the staff, he hasn't separated himself from Moseley and Loux.

Ortega, a 23-year-old Venezuelan who enjoyed a breakthrough 2008 season at Double-A Arkansas and Salt Lake, is likely to join Adenhart in the Pacific Coast League at the outset of the season. The Bees could be as dominant as last year, when they were men among boys in opening the season 21-1 with a 15-game winning streak.

With Brian Fuentes replacing Francisco Rodriguez in the closing role, the competition for one open spot in the deep, resourceful bullpen involves Jason Bulger and Kevin Jepsen. Each has the stuff to close and has been impressive this spring.

Even for the man who makes the cut, however, there will be an air of uncertainty with Moseley or Loux likely to be moved into middle relief once Escobar and Santana return to make the rotation complete.

Escobar has been the buzz of camp all spring with his remarkable recovery from shoulder surgery and could be back by May. The club is being careful with Santana, who reported elbow discomfort and was shut down.

"Ervin's going to take it slow," Scioscia said. "He has started to play catch again. There's a lot that has to happen from right now before he's going to play in a game for us. Right now, it's baby steps, but he feels much better."

Given their quality depth on the mound, the Angels can afford to wait on Santana, an All-Star along with Saunders last season.

Tomorrow: position battles on the field.






