
ANAHEIM -- Esteban Yan is slowly working his way back into the Angels' late-inning scheme.

After opening the year by throwing five shutout innings in his first three appearances, Yan allowed 13 runs on 27 hits and 12 walks over his next 13 outings. But he has since recovered; through his first four appearances in June entering Sunday, Yan has thrown 5 1/3 shutout innings while allowing one hit and one walk.

In Saturday's 2-1 comeback win over the Marlins, Yan relieved starter John Lackey and tossed 1 1/3 shutout innings with a pair of strikeouts. A simple adjustment has allowed Yan to regain his rhythm.

"He had a couple of different setups that were contributing to his inconsistency," manager Mike Scioscia said. "He has his balance now and he has his load. Those are two important aspects of pitching."

With right-handed reliever Brendan Donnelly facing a 10-day suspension, the hearing on his appeal is Friday, June 24, Scioscia is comfortable with Yan and Joel Peralta stepping into key roles in Donnelly's absence.

"We're not going to have to choose," Scioscia said. "They're both going to be needed. That is the depth you need in the bullpen."

The road back: For the third time this season, Kelvim Escobar is in the midst of rehabbing his right elbow and trying to work back into the rotation. Escobar is currently on the 15-day disabled list with pain and swelling caused by a bone spur.

Escobar received a cortisone shot during his latest course of treatment as both the pitcher and club hope to avoid surgery, at least until the offseason. On Sunday, Escobar threw his second bullpen session since being placed on the DL on June 10.

Though he is eligible to come off the DL on Saturday when the Angels host the Dodgers and his turn in the rotation will come up the following day, the club expects Escobar to throw at least one more bullpen before going out on a Minor League rehab assignment.

"The progression is getting him healthy and getting him into rehab games to build stamina and to see where his elbow is," Scioscia said. "It is going to be important."

If Escobar ultimately decides to have surgery he will miss a minimum of 6-8 weeks.

Understudy: Ervin Santana started Sunday's series finale with the Marlins in Paul Byrd's slot, moved up a day to give the right-hander an extra day to rest a sore right triceps. If Escobar is unable to return this season, the Angels would consider moving Santana into the rotation full-time.

"I think he could. I think he's ready for the challenge," Scioscia said. "He's not the finished product, but I think we could monitor his progress much like we did with John Lackey in 2002."

Lackey went 9-4 with a 3.66 ERA in 18 starts after being called up to the Angels on June 30 of that season.

In the fold: The Angels ended nearly a year of wondering and speculation when they signed 2004 first-round draft pick Jered Weaver to a Minor League deal last month. Now it's time to see what kind of shape he's in after a long layoff from baseball and Monday he'll take the mound at Lake Elsinore in a start for Class A Rancho Cucamonga.

"We're very excited to have Jered in our organization, but also to have him pitch and pitch in a game and start on that path toward the Major Leagues," Scioscia said. "Our player development department will be very conservative with his progress and make sure he is ready for each step."

On deck: The Angels will welcome division rival Texas to town for the second time this season in a three-game series that begins Monday at 7:05 p.m. PT. Byrd will face Rangers right-hander Chris Young.






