
ANAHEIM -- One day after jamming his left shoulder, Vladimir Guerrero was back in the Angels' lineup on Friday. According to the 2004 American League MVP, it was more than enough time.

"I actually swung [a bat] after I got taken out yesterday, just so that when I came in here today, I could tell [manager Mike Scioscia] I was gonna play," Guerrero said through an interpreter.

Accordingly, Scioscia wrote Guerrero into his customary cleanup spot on Friday night, although he did move his star from right field to designated hitter.

"We don't need him reaching up and making a running catch or anything right now," Scioscia said. "But he feels strong enough to swing a bat, which is where we really need him."

Guerrero, who injured his shoulder while making an unsuccessful attempt to catch Vance Wilson's RBI double in the fifth inning on Thursday, said this injury to his left shoulder is very different than the dislocation that landed him on the disabled list from May 21-June 9.

"This one felt more like it was stretched out, not the impact but that it got a little over stretched," he said, adding that the injury occurred "with the impact."

The Angels are pleased with the mildness of Guerrero's symptoms a day later.

"He's definitely better off than we thought it could be," Scioscia said.

Troy's trials: While Guerrero's back in the lineup, former Angels closer Troy Percival may never pitch again.

Angels team physician Dr. Lewis Yocum examined Percival on Friday night to determine if Percival can rehab a muscle tear in his right forearm without surgery. Surgery would require 12 months of recovery -- completely wiping out the 2006 season -- and would also significantly lessen Percival's velocity.

Percival told the Detroit Free Press that "if I have to have surgery and I have to sit out next year, I'd be done. Either he [Yocum] will say this is going to heal up enough to pitch, or we're going to have surgery -- which I don't want to do."

Percival, 36, recorded 316 saves and a 2.99 ERA in 10 years with the Angels. He signed a two-year, $12 million contract with Detroit prior to this season and was 1-2 with a 5.76 ERA in 26 appearances, including a scoreless ninth inning at Angel Stadium on June 7.

Changeable Chone: Chone Figgins was at third base on Friday after misplaying two fly balls on Thursday, but Scioscia said the move was solely made to get Steve Finley's lefty bat in the lineup.

"I think that Fin -- he's had a little spark in his swing the last couple weeks," Scioscia said. "Against right-handed pitching, he's a guy we want to get in there."

Finley entered Friday's contest hitless in his last eight at-bats, but he batted .267 with one home run during the Angels' recent road trip.

Here and there: Bartolo Colon reported no problems with his previously stiff back the day after his Thursday start. Scioscia says Colon will start on Tuesday. ... Kelvim Escobar remains a candidate to get a start next week, according to Scioscia, depending on matchups. ... The Angels broke the 3-million mark in attendance on Thursday for the third time in their history -- and the third time in three seasons.

On deck: Ervin Santana (8-8, 4.96 ERA) will face fellow rookie Roman Colon (1-1, 6.29 ERA) and the Tigers at 7:05 p.m. PT on Saturday at Angel Stadium.






