
CHICAGO -- A couple of division leaders are hooking up this weekend, and Angels manager Mike Scioscia sees a lot of parallels between his American League West leaders and Ozzie Guillen's White Sox club, running in front of the AL Central pack.



"The White Sox are a team -- we know they have high expectations," Scioscia said. "They have a core of veteran players you would expect to perform at a higher level than they showed a couple weeks ago -- and have started to do that.



"Their bullpen and rotation are strong, and once their [offensive] guys start to hit their stride, this is a championship-level club over there. They're a good team.



"We're in the same boat. We haven't lived up to expectations offensively, but we're keeping our head above water."



Jered Weaver, coming off two straight high-caliber outings, takes the ball for the Angels against southpaw John Danks. Both pitched well in the series in Anaheim last week but did not register decisions as the clubs split the four games.



Considering their lengthy injury list and substandard starts by Vladimir Guerrero and Gary Matthews Jr., the Angels feel pretty good about where they stand. John Lackey has returned to the top of the rotation, but Kelvim Escobar isn't close to being back, and the team's double-play combination -- shortstop Erick Aybar and second baseman Howie Kendrick -- has played only a few games together.



Aybar will be out for about a month with a dislocated pinkie, but Kendrick could be back soon from his strained left hamstring, which would add a loud bat to Scioscia's arsenal. Chone Figgins came back from his strained right hamstring, played one game, but has sat out the past two with soreness in the area of the injury. He's day-to-day and could be back in the lineup against the White Sox, Scioscia said.



"I think we're in the position we want to be, top of the division," Angels general manager Tony Reagins said. "We still haven't clicked on all cylinders yet, but guys who have come in and filled roles have done an excellent job.



"We still have some work to do, to tighten some things up. We need some guys healthy, and we need to hit better with runners in scoring position. But I'm happy with the position we're in going into the next phase of the season."






Pitching matchup
LAA: RHP Jered Weaver (3-5, 4.73 ERA)
Weaver has put together two good outings after struggling in his previous two. Against the Dodgers on Sunday, Weaver allowed two runs and five hits with seven strikeouts to pick up the win. That came on the heels of seven innings of one-hit shutout ball that he tossed in a no-decision against the White Sox. Weaver is 2-0 in his career at U.S. Cellular Field with a 0.77 ERA, having allowed one earned run in 11 2/3 innings.


CWS: LHP John Danks (3-3, 2.94 ERA)
Danks hasn't lost during his last three trips to the mound, but he has only picked up one victory in this short stretch after being left with a second straight no-decision on Sunday in San Francisco. The southpaw gave up three runs on six hits over six innings, striking out three and walking three, while getting four home runs in support. But the bullpen could not hold a three-run lead in the seventh. Danks started last Tuesday in Anaheim and did not factor in the 2-0 loss. He allowed seven hits and fanned five over 6 1/3 scoreless innings during his first career start against the Angels.

Tidbits
The Angels' most consistent hitter against southpaws has been Casey Kotchman. He's batting .378 against them with a .568 slugging percentage and a team-high 10 RBIs. ... After struggling last season against southpaws, Gary Matthews Jr. has two homers and eight RBIs in 35 at-bats against them, hitting .257. ... Torii Hunter's 405-foot homer in the fifth inning Friday night against Gavin Floyd tied Minnesota's Jason Kubel for the second longest of the season at U.S. Cellular Field by an opponent. Only the Indians' Michael Aubrey has gone deeper, at 407, according to the unofficial estimates. ... Picking up where he left off last season, Darren Oliver has been an unsung contributor with a 2.53 ERA in 21 1/3 innings. He hasn't been scored upon in 10 of his past 13 appearances and has stranded 12 of 15 inherited runners. 

Tickets
 Buy tickets now to catch the game in person. 


On the Internet
 Gameday Audio
&#149;  Gameday
&#149;  Official game notes

On television
&#149; FOX

On radio
&#149; KLAA 830, KWKW 1330 (Espa&ntilde;ol)


Up next

&#149; Sunday: Angels (John Lackey, 1-0, 1.29) at White Sox (Jose Contreras, 5-3, 3.17), 5:05 p.m. PT 
&#149; Monday: Angels (Jon Garland, 5-3, 4.34) vs. Tigers (Kenny Rogers, 4-4, 6.66), 6:05 p.m. PT 
&#149; Tuesday: Angels (Ervin Santana, 6-2, 3.24) vs. Tigers (Jeremy Bonderman, 3-4, 4.58), 7:05 p.m. PT 






