
ANAHEIM -- Shortstop Neale "Bobo" Henderson of the legendary Kansas City Monarchs is the Angels' choice in Major League Baseball's special draft of Negro League players as part of  the first day of the First-Year Player Draft on June 5.

Henderson, who'd served the Monarchs as a bat boy at age 7, made his Negro Leagues debut in 1949 as it was in its final stages as a viable operation. Most of the big stars from the Negro Leagues were moving into the Major Leagues in the aftermath of Jackie Robinson -- a former Monarchs star -- breaking the color barrier in 1947 with the Brooklyn Dodgers.

Henderson went on to serve in the United States Army during the Korean War.

The special ceremonial Negro Leagues Player Draft will begin at 10 a.m. PT on June 5, when the selections of the Major League clubs will be announced and each Negro Leagues alumnus will be honored. The festivities will be broadcast live on MLB.com, the official Web site of Major League Baseball.





&#149; Draft Tracker
&#149; Beckham No. 1
&#149; Negro Leaguers
&#149; Fantasy fallout








MLB.com will carry every pick of the 2008 First-Year Player Draft, which takes place June 5-6 at The Milk House at Disney's Wide World of Sports Complex in Orlando, Fla. The First-Year Player Draft follows the Negro League special Draft at 11 a.m. with a simulcast of ESPN2's broadcast of the first round and compensation picks. The remaining rounds on Day 1 will be shown exclusively on BaseballChannel.TV, with live analysis on site from MLB.com Draft guru Jonathan Mayo and David Rawnsley of Perfect Game USA.

Several of the top amateur prospects are expected in attendance in Orlando for Day 1 of the Draft, and each of the 30 Major League clubs will be represented by front office executives and baseball luminaries. Fans are welcome to attend Day 1 of the Draft, and admission to The Milk House is free with seating limited to a first-come, first-served basis.

Day 2 will get under way at 8:30 a.m. and continue through Round 50, if necessary. Every pick on Day 2 can be heard live at MLB.com.

Each Major League club is drafting surviving former Negro Leagues players, who will represent every player who did not have the opportunity to play Major League Baseball.

"Major League Baseball is thrilled to host this distinguished group that helped author one of the most important chapters in baseball history, the Negro Leagues," said Jimmie Lee Solomon, MLB's executive vice president for baseball operations. "Our First-Year Player Draft represents the future, but we are pleased to take this opportunity to recognize this proud part of our game's past. Those who participated in the Negro Leagues helped pave the way, and we are honored that they will join us at the 2008 Draft."






