
Jeremy Bonderman has shown that being traded for Jeff Weaver can help your career. The young right-hander was a key member of the Detroit staff that has the Tigers in the World Series. Angels prospect Terry Evans is hoping the same thing can happen for him.

Evans, the 24-year-old outfielder that Los Angeles received in its deal for Weaver midway through the year, posted a nice season (33 homers and 37 steals between Class A and Double-A) and has continued his solid performance as a member of the Scottsdale Scorpions in the Arizona Fall League.

Evans has seven hits in his first six games, including six hits and seven RBIs in his first four games, and is the only Angels farmhand who will play in Friday's Rising Stars Showcase.

Evans and six other Los Angeles prospects are playing for the Scorpions. Here's how they fared during the past week in the AFL:

RHP Rich Thompson -- Thompson followed a good outing on Oct. 18 with his best of the season two days later. He retired the side in order against the Peoria Javelinas on Oct. 20, the right-handed Australian's only 1-2-3 inning of the season. But the 22-year-old's two-run, three-hit inning on Monday pushed his ERA to 18.56.

RHP Matt Wilhite -- Wilhite followed his toughest performance of the season with two stellar outings. The right-hander gave up three runs on two hits -- both home runs -- against Mesa on Oct. 19. He recovered to retire both of the hitters he faced against Phoenix on Saturday, and he pitched a perfect inning against Mesa on Wednesday.

C Bobby Wilson -- Wilson's average took a dive, but he was batting .313 after going 1-for-4 against Mesa on Wednesday. He had his average up to .421 before going 2-for-13 in his next four games. Wilson showed a good eye when he walked three times against Phoenix on Saturday.

3B Matt Brown -- Brown had three multihit games and went 8-for-17 with seven runs scored in four games this week. He had two RBIs in consecutive games on Tuesday and Wednesday, and he also hit his first home run of the season.

LHP Daniel Davidson -- Davidson had a tough start against the Javelinas on Oct. 20. The left-hander allowed four runs on seven hits in three innings, raising his ERA to 9.53. Opposing batters are hitting .400 against him.

RHP William Edwards  -- Edwards experienced some control problems against Phoenix on Saturday. He walked four in one inning and gave up two runs without allowing a hit. Prior to that outing, Edwards had issued two walks in 4 1/3 innings. He also permitted an unearned run against Mesa on Wednesday.






