
ANAHEIM -- A long and winding road through the Minor Leagues finally paid off for Nathan Haynes on Monday, as the Angels purchased the outfielder's contract from Triple-A Salt Lake.

The 27-year-old Haynes replaces Tommy Murphy, who was optioned to the Bees.

Haynes, originally drafted by the Oakland Athletics in the first round of the 1997 First-Year Player Draft, was leading the Pacific Coast League with a .391 average.

Primarily a center fielder with Salt Lake, the left-handed hitter had spent 10 seasons in the Minors before being called up to the big leagues. His first appearance with the Angels will be his Major League debut.

Haynes had a broken-bat single to center in the bottom of the ninth inning of Monday's loss to Seattle for his first Major League hit.

"My heart was racing," Haynes said. "I was just excited and glad that my dad was here to see it and my mom was watching on TV. Today has been everything I dreamed of."

Haynes got the ball from his first hit and the scorecard from Monday's game. He said the ball will go to his dad, and he will give the scorecard to his mom.

After enduring eight surgeries over a decade that saw him contemplate retirement from baseball numerous times, Haynes is glad to finally be in the Majors.

"This is a good situation for me," Haynes said. "I feel great. ... The doctors worked wonders."

A list of ailments that includes two sports hernias, three knee scopes, torn ligaments in his left hand and a torn labrum temporarily derailed Haynes from achieving his dream, but it made it all the more sweet when he got word of his promotion from Salt Lake manager Brian Harper.

"I started to question whether my body would allow me to do it," said Haynes. "Eight surgeries will do that to you. But I always used to say that one day in the big leagues would make it all worth it, and being able to call my mom yesterday and give her the news just made my day."

Haynes, a Bay Area native, had four home runs and 32 RBIs to go along with his 14 stolen bases in 43 games with the Bees.

Angels manager Mike Scioscia praised the outfielder's success in Salt Lake.

"We're all very proud of Nathan," said Scioscia. "He has worked hard on his game and this is by far the best we have seen him play. Tommy [Murphy] needs to play every day, and Nathan can do some of the things Tommy was doing when he was up here. He has a lot of talent that will play in the big leagues."

Murphy was batting .176 (6-for-34) with one double and two RBIs in 14 games with the Angels.

To make room for Haynes on the 40-man roster, the Angels requested unconditional-release waivers on left-hander Phil Seibel.

Scioscia back: Scioscia was back in the saddle for Monday's series opener against the Seattle Mariners.

Scioscia missed the final two games of the three-game sweep of the New York Yankees, returning to Southern California to attend the graduation of his son, Matt, from Encino Crespi High School.

Angels bench coach Ron Roenicke won both games that Scioscia missed, prompting the Angels manager to jokingly question his abilities.

"I'm dragging this club down," Scioscia quipped. "I'm just going to stay out of the way from now on."

Roenicke has an unofficial record of 5-0 managing the Angels while Scioscia has been out. The Halos won three games under Roenicke in 2006 when Scioscia was serving suspensions.

Scioscia praised Roenicke's handling of the club while he was out.

"Ron was right on the money," said Scioscia. "We talk so much about this game that I am really comfortable with him in there. He did a great job running the team."

Aside from the three games that Scioscia missed last season due to suspension, this weekend's games against New York were the first that he has missed in his eight seasons as manager of the ballclub.

Anderson update: Angels left fielder Garret Anderson, who has been on the disabled list since April 28 with a torn right hip flexor tendon, worked out before Monday's game, and the club hopes he can play in some Minor League rehab games this week.

Scioscia said the target will be either the middle or the end of the week to get Anderson into some rehab contests at Class A Rancho Cucamonga.

Scioscia added that he envisions Anderson returning to left field once he is fully healthy but said that he may need to DH before he gets to that point.

Sixteen straight: The Angels are in the midst of a stretch that sees them playing games for 16 consecutive days.

Monday's series opener against the Mariners kicked off a 10-game homestand that will also see Baltimore and Minnesota come to town.

The Halos do not have a day off until June 7.

Minor star of the day: Right-hander Nick Adenhart pitched 7 2/3 innings for Double-A Arkansas in the Travelers' 3-2 win over San Antonio on Sunday.

Adenhart, one of the Angels' top pitching prospects, allowed two runs on six hits with five strikeouts in getting a no-decision. He is 3-2 on the season with a 3.43 ERA.

Stat of the day: After Sunday's victory against the Yankees, the Angels have won 103 consecutive games when leading after eight innings, the longest current streak in the Majors.

Up next: Ervin Santana (3-6, 6.00 ERA) takes the hill against Seattle, facing Ryan Feierabend (2007 debut) in the second of a three-game series at Angel Stadium on Tuesday at 7:05 p.m. PT.






