
ANAHEIM -- The Angels' winningest pitcher this season has been a bit of a surprise.

Ervin Santana has proven he has the talent to win big-league games but with veterans Bartolo Colon, John Lackey and Kelvim Escobar in the rotation, Santana wasn't the leading candidate to be the staff leader in wins at the beginning of the season.

But that's exactly where Santana sits -- atop the Angels with a 13-7 record that he will take to the mound when he faces the Orioles on Wednesday afternoon. The second-year right-hander has already passed his win total from last season and credits a workout routine for helping him remain effective into September.

"I worked hard this year to stay stronger," Santana said. "I've been able to throw more strikes, especially with my fastball. I've learned a lot more about hitters and how I can pitch to some guys."

Santana has discussed pitching frequently throughout the year with Colon and Escobar and credits both pitchers with helping him make strides this season. He's beginning to make the adjustment from a hurler that relies mostly on power with a tendency to overthrow into a pitcher with a more complete approach.

"From start to start last season and into this season, he's learned how to trust his stuff and he now has the confidence to bounce back. He's been throwing the ball better than he did last year," manager Mike Scioscia said. "He's a lanky kid and his delivery can be a challenge, but he's improved. He's not the finished product; he will get better."

Santana has been effective with his fastball and feels his changeup has made a big difference this season. But he's intrigued by his slider that he estimates is about 75 percent as effective as it was before he suffered a right elbow strain and was shut down halfway through the 2004 season.

"My slider was like [Francisco Rodriguez's] but after I hurt my arm, I was scared to throw it," Santana said. "But it is coming back."

Santana also said he might eventually add a cutter, but the club wants him to wait and not add additional stress on his arm.

Key bat: The Angels lost a big piece of the lineup Tuesday, when Juan Rivera was replaced in left field by Curtis Pride. Rivera has suffered from a pain on the back of his left hand for about two weeks. An X-ray was negative, but Rivera said he will miss at least three days.

"There is a little strain that makes it tough for him to swing a bat," Scioscia said. "It just now got to a point where it affected him."

Rivera doesn't remember being hit or any event that may have caused it, but said the doctors told him it's probably a previous injury from four to five years ago. He also said he doesn't feel any pain when he plays catch, but feels it specifically when he swings and misses or when he fouls a ball off.

The timing of the injury is a tough one for the Angels. Not only are they trying to catch the A's in the American League West and need every bat in the rack, but Rivera has been one of the offensive bright spots this season.

A year ago, Rivera hit 15 homers in 350 at-bats and the Angels projected much better numbers from the outfielder/designated hitter with more playing time. Aside from missing 20 games early in the season with a strained left rib cage, Rivera has been a regular part of the lineup this year.

In 374 at-bats, Rivera is hitting .302 with 21 homers and 74 RBIs. When the Angels posted baseball's best record by going 19-7 in July, no one was hotter than Rivera. He hit .364 with 11 homers and 25 RBIs in the month with an OPS (on-base percentage plus slugging percentage) of 1.178.

"It is a big bat out of our lineup for sure but the rest of the guys will have to pick up some slack," Scioscia said. "The last week or so our offense has begun to struggle. We have to pressure teams every inning but if other guys start to swing the bat, we can absorb this and move on."

Numbers: Following Tuesday's game with the Orioles, the Angels have 23 games remaining on the schedule with 20 of those against opponents with .500 records or better. ... The Angels are on pace for their third consecutive winning season, a feat unaccomplished in franchise history.

On deck: The Angels will conclude their three-game series against the Orioles on Wednesday at 12:35 p.m. PT, as Santana will face Baltimore right-hander Daniel Cabrera. The Angels will have Thursday off and then host the Blue Jays in a three-game series, beginning Friday.






