
TEMPE, Ariz. -- Mike Scioscia was unaware of the fact that his Angels have the best Spring Training record in the Majors over the past four years, but he had a ready explanation for their .614 winning percentage over that span.

"You're always trying to win a game, no matter what," Scioscia said in anticipation of Thursday's 2:05 p.m. PT Cactus League opener against the Rangers at Tempe Diablo Stadium. "One reason we might [perform well in Cactus play] is we're giving our young guys a look, and they're very talented."

He alluded to impressive performances in recent springs by Chone Figgins, Casey Kotchman and Mike Napoli as examples of players taking advantage of the opportunity to advance on the depth charts -- and help the club win games.

Ervin Santana will be the Angels' spring starter, and he'll throw about 30 pitches, Scioscia said. Attempting to rebound from a disappointing 2007, Santana is coming off a tremendous winter performance in his native Dominican Republic with Caribbean Series champion Licey.

"He's ready to go," Scioscia said. "He was ready coming into camp. That's not the whole thing behind him getting the start, but it's something you feel comfortable with."

Center fielder Torii Hunter's debut with the Angels is expected to be one of the highlights of the spring, while position battles at shortstop and catcher will spice up the preseason.

Erick Aybar, Maicer Izturis and Brandon Wood are the candidates to replace Orlando Cabrera at shortstop. Behind the plate, Napoli and Jeff Mathis are back to compete for the leading role.

"If one guy takes off and runs with a position or we split it up, that'll play itself out," Scioscia said. "We're obviously going to pay attention to that.

"I don't think we'll narrow it down to one position, or two. I'm looking forward to seeing [Howard] Kendrick and Kotchman healthy for a full season and carrying the momentum.

"I'm excited to see Torii Hunter, whatever combination is around him, to be a difference-maker in a lot of games. I'm excited to see the bullpen and pitching come together."






