
ANAHEIM -- Keeping warm takes on new meaning this week for rehabbing Angels pitchers Bartolo Colon and Jared Weaver.

Colon, recovering from a torn right rotator cuff, and Weaver, plagued with biceps tendinitis, will start for the Class A Rancho Cucamonga Quakes on Thursday and Friday, respectively.

Manager Mike Scioscia said prior to Saturday's Freeway Series finale with the Dodgers that the two pitchers might otherwise have thrown at Triple-A Salt Lake City, had it not been for the cold weather there in early April.

"We've mapped out the days they're going to pitch, but we're going to try to stay away from Salt Lake," Scioscia said. 

"We want to stay away from the cold as much as we can, except for when Jared has to pitch in Boston on Patriots Day [on April 16]. There's nothing we can do about that."

Figgins on hand: Chone Figgins, whose fractured index and middle fingers on his throwing hand are expected to keep him out of action for another five weeks, said before Saturday's game that he'll know more about the healing process after a doctor's appointment on April 9.

"I'm feeling good right now," Figgins said. "It's frustrating not being able to play because I'm a competitor.

"I worked so hard in the offseason to be ready for April 2 [Opening Day for the Angels, who face Texas at home]. But injuries happen. They're a part of the sport."

Hot Halos: Garret Anderson didn't start Saturday's game, but finished Spring Training as the Angels' top batter with a .381 batting average (16-for-42). ... Casey Kotchman and Gary Matthews Jr. led the team with three home runs each. ... John Lackey led the pitching staff with 17 strikeouts.

Trifecta time: Kotchman was involved in all three of the Angels' triple plays during Spring Training. The third came during Thursday night's Freeway Series opener at Dodger Stadium, won by the Angels, 6-1. The other two were against Colorado on March 3 and Seattle on March 20.  It's worth noting that the team has turned just six triple plays in its 46-year history, the most recent having come in 1997.

Up next: The Angels open the 2007 season at home at 7:05 p.m. PT on Monday against Texas, sending right-hander Lackey against Rangers right-hander Kevin Millwood.






