
ANAHEIM -- Kelvim Escobar's right elbow is not progressing as hoped and the right-hander will have arthroscopic surgery to shave down the bone spur next week.

Team orthopedist Dr. Lewis Yocum evaluated Escobar again on Saturday and determined the best course of action is to perform a procedure that shaves down the spur. He is expected to miss at least eight weeks.

Escobar threw a two-inning simulated game on Friday and reported feeling fine, but a day later both manager Mike Scioscia and Escobar agreed that his outing wasn't as sharp as they had hoped. The right-hander said he did not feel pain in his right elbow, but he said his mechanics and his release point were not what he had expected.

He also feels surgery is the only decision after therapy and a cortisone shot did not alleviate the problem.

It will be the second time Escobar has had this type of surgery. In 1996, while in the Blue Jays organization, Escobar had bone chips removed and in 2000 he began to feel the condition return, and it has bothered him off and on ever since.

As much pain as it has caused his arm, it has been tougher for Escobar to spend most of his time on the bench and in the trainer's room.

"It is frustrating. I want to get out there so bad," Escobar said, who will stay back when the Angels head out on a seven-game road trip that begins in Texas on Monday. "We're having fun. I want to be a part of this team. I don't feel [like I'm] a part of it."

Escobar had prepared himself for the possibility of surgery. The one thing he did not want to do was go back on the mound only to have more pain in his elbow, so he is comfortable with the steps he took in his rehab.

"I feel good about myself because I did everything I could," Escobar said, who is 2-2 with a 3.54 ERA in seven starts this season.

Escobar said he healed quickly the last time he had the surgery and expects to be back at or near the eight-week mark. He said he'll begin his rehab about five days post-surgery.


Nicked: Dallas McPherson left Saturday's game after the sixth inning with a sore left groin. He is listed as day-to-day.

Streaking: Adam Kennedy did not return to the Angels lineup until May 2 this season after battling back from a pair of offseason surgeries to repair a torn ACL and a partially torn MCL in his right knee.

The second baseman started slowly, hitting .250 in May, but he's found his stroke in June. Kennedy extended his hitting streak to 13 games with a second-inning RBI single Saturday to increase his American League-leading average to .463 for the month.

Scioscia said it has been a matter of Kennedy finding his comfort zone.

"He worked out some rough edges earlier, but I think his approach is something he's comfortable with," Scioscia said. "He's been hitting the ball well the other way and has been using the whole field. I think he's really confident to go gap-to-gap and line-to-line."

Kennedy has yet to hit a home run after hitting 30 over the last three seasons. As the nine-hole hitter, Scioscia is not concerned with his power numbers

"He has the power to hit home runs, but I think it is better for him to hit home runs by accident than trying to go after them," Scioscia said.

Giving it time: Steve Finley is on the disabled list with a right shoulder strain and will be eligible to come off a few days prior to the All-Star break, but the Angels will not rush him back.

Scioscia said Finley has begun strengthening and range of motion exercises, but no timetable has been set. The club wants the shoulder to calm down before they assess how quickly to advance him through his rehab.

"It is a progression, and he's not quite there yet," Scioscia said. "If it takes more time than two weeks, then we're going to give it more time, but we won't know for a while."

In the lineup: Jeff DaVanon was back in the starting lineup for the second straight night on Saturday. With Finley down, DaVanon's time will increase, but he's also been helping his own cause.

"He's been swinging the bat pretty well for the past couple of weeks," Scioscia said. "He gets on base and scores runs."

DaVanon entered Saturday's game hitting .225 for the season but has posted a .313 average over his last 10 games

Trade winds: Rumors will heat up over the next month with the trading deadline slated for July 31. The Angels started slowly at the plate this season, but have warmed up in the month of June. Their pitching and defense have been solid throughout, prompting the Angels to feel confident with the product they already have.

General manager Bill Stoneman will likely be taking more phone calls next month than he will make, but he will remain open to ideas.

"If we get the opportunity to do something that will make us better, that is what we look for," Stoneman said.

But even with recent injuries to players like Escobar, Finley, and Orlando Cabrera, Stoneman is confident that the organization will handle most situations.

"We can do it with our own guys," Stoneman said.

On deck: The Angels will conclude their series with the Dodgers along with the Interleague portion of the schedule on Sunday at 1:05 p.m. PT. Right-hander Paul Byrd will face Dodgers right-hander Derek Lowe.






