
SEATTLE -- If the Angels are to find some offensive rhythm, they must wean themselves off their dependence of Vladimir Guerrero.

Manager Mike Scioscia believes his team must perform throughout the lineup to have any shot at defending its American League West crown.

With a 15-hit attack on Independence Day, the Angels responded to that call, and while all hitters may not be created equally, there is certainly equal opportunity for all as the club shed a four-run deficit to liberate a 14-6 victory from the Mariners.

Their outburst Tuesday afternoon was both by land and by air as Juan Rivera went 3-for-3 with a pair of homers and five RBIs, while Kendry Morales drove in three runs on two doubles and Guerrero drove in a pair.

Maicer Izturis equaled a career best with three hits, and Orlando Cabrera extended his streak of reaching base to 61 games with an RBI single in the sixth. Eight different Angels batters had at least one hit.

Their fourth straight win ensured the Angels of their second straight series victory as they go for the sweep of the Mariners on Wednesday. It was also the third game in their last four that they've scored seven or more runs.

"Juan had a good day today and we were able to swing the bats -- and we needed that. Izzy had a great day, [Chone Figgins] did a good job and Orlando has been there all year," Scioscia said. "The guys in the front of the lineup did their jobs and the guys at the end did, too. That way we're not pressured to have the guys in the middle pull that wagon."

The Fourth of July crowd at Safeco Field was treated to a pregame home run derby featuring softball players before the Major Leaguers put together a show of their own. The Mariners had a five-run inning and the Angels upstaged their hosts with a seven-run frame.

"We're playing better now," Rivera said. "We're scoring more runs and we're playing hard."

Ervin Santana (9-3) was the key beneficiary as he earned his fifth win in his last six starts without a loss. The right-hander jumped out quickly with three perfect innings before running into trouble as he elevated the ball in the fourth.

With the Angels leading, 1-0, on Guerrero's fourth-inning sacrifice fly, the Mariners struck for five runs in the bottom half. Ichiro Suzuki walked and Adrian Beltre singled to lead off the inning. Jose Lopez then hit a sinking liner to right that Rivera dived for but could not secure as the ball fell for a base hit to drive in Ichiro.

Raul Ibanez then drove an 0-1 pitch to right off Santana for a three-run shot, his 19th home run of the year. Richie Sexson followed by hitting the next pitch out to right for his 16th home run of the season and the Mariners led, 5-1.

Santana would allow one more run on the day when Yuniesky Betancourt scored on Adrian Beltre's groundout in the eighth. Five of Santana's eight innings were perfect.

"I have to give a lot of credit to [catcher] Jose Molina, because we were on the same page all day," said Santana, who allowed six runs on six hits and a walk with six strikeouts. "I had just one inning when I made mistakes. I was trying to keep the ball down. I made adjustments."

Santana, who last was charged with a loss on May 31, leads the Angels staff in wins but he's also been treated to favorable run support. Tuesday was the sixth time the Angels have scored at least eight runs in a Santana start.

"Outside of one inning when they squared up some balls, Ervin pitched a great game and we chipped away," Scioscia said. "That's what we talk about, being able to pitch with a lead and stay in the ball game."

Mariners reliever Julio Mateo (5-3) allowed four runs on four hits and two intentional walks over one inning to take the loss. Gil Meche started for the Mariners and allowed five runs (four earned) on five hits over five-plus innings for a no-decision.

"I thought that I was fine," Meche said. "I wasn't happy with it but I don't make the calls around here. Eighty-seven pitches ... I felt like I had plenty left."

Rivera hit a solo homer off Meche in the top of the fifth and then the Angels busted out for seven runs in sixth. Guerrero and Morales both had RBI doubles in the inning while Cabrera, Molina and Izturis each had RBI singles. Rivera added a sac fly as the Angels sent 12 men to the plate to grab a 9-5 lead.

Rivera also hit a three-run homer in the ninth.






