
CLEVELAND -- Joe Saunders is making a quick study of the Major Leagues, and on Friday he'll take an accelerated course in one of the game's great lecture halls.

That would be Yankee Stadium, where the Angels will begin a four-game series on their four-city, 10-game tour.

"Just the fact that it is Yankee Stadium, it is going to be a big moment," Saunders said.

Like his fellow first-year students, Jered Weaver and Dustin Moseley, Saunders hasn't been struggling with the material as the trio has combined to go 11-0 this season.

The left-handed Saunders is 3-0 in three starts with the Angels this season. He was recalled first on July 18 and started for Kelvim Escobar, who was on the disabled list with a sore right elbow.

After picking up the win, Saunders was optioned back to Triple-A Salt Lake, but he returned to the Angels on Aug. 1, when Bartolo Colon was placed on the DL. In his two starts since, Saunders has allowed eight hits over 14 innings while allowing just two runs.

After going 10-4 with the Bees, Saunders has settled into his rotation slot with the Angels and appears more comfortable than he did a year ago. He blew hot and cold last season with a pair of no-decisions in two starts.

"Not to say it is getting easier, but I'd say the nerves are a little more relaxed and I'm going out there and making some pitches," Saunders said.

Saunders has some ground to make up to catch Weaver, who is 7-0 in 10 starts this season with the Angels. But he's having a bit more fun now that they've taken it up a notch.

"It is something that we had going in Salt Lake," Saunders said. "But this is a much better level of baseball and we're going to try and put our best foot forward."

Star power: "Access Hollywood" was at Jacobs Field on Thursday afternoon to shoot a brief segment for an upcoming program in which Angels infielder Howie Kendrick signs a ball for Ben Affleck.

On Sunday, July 30 at Fenway Park, Kendrick caught a foul pop-up at the rail of the box seats where Affleck was taking in the game with actress Jennifer Garner. Kendrick, playing first base, reached over to catch the ball for the final out of an inning and Affleck was given grief by the surrounding Red Sox fans for not making it harder on the Angels rookie.

Travel tips: With the United States on heightened security alert following the terrorist threat in the United Kingdom, further restrictions have been imposed on airlines and their passengers. While Major League Baseball teams all fly charters, they are still subject to the same search procedures as the general public.

"It shouldn't create any great problems," said Angels traveling secretary Tom Taylor. "We've told them not to carry on any liquids, shaving cream. Things like that."

The Angels, like other passengers, are screened inside the terminal but go through a designated lane.

Asides: The Angels hit .255 from April through June, but they entered Thursday with a .303 batting average since July 1. ... In May, the pitching staff posted a 5.08 ERA, but they've turned in a 3.53 ERA since June 1 while their 3.27 ERA entering Thursday is the lowest in the Majors since July 1.

Overlooked: Add Carlos Delgado to the list of players with at least 25 homers in each of the last nine years. Vladimir Guerrero hit his 25th on Tuesday to join Manny Ramirez, Andruw Jones and Delgado as players who've accomplished the feat.

Delgado has actually hit at least 25 for 11 straight years. Alex Rodriguez is likely to join the group. He had 23 home runs entering Thursday.

Comings and goings: The Angels called up right-handed reliever Chris Bootcheck after Thursday's 14-2 loss to the Indians and optioned outfielder Tommy Murphy to make room on the roster.

On the farm: Jeff Mathis went 3-for-5 with two doubles as Salt Lake dropped a 10-6 decision to Round Rock on Wednesday. Mathis is hitting .298 in 82 games with 27 doubles.

On deck: First pitch for Friday's series opener at Yankee Stadium will be at 4:05 p.m. PT with Saunders set to face New York right-hander Cory Lidle. Escobar will start against the Yankees on Saturday.






