
ANAHEIM -- It became painfully clear why Francisco Rodriguez was named the game's top setup man last season.

In Tuesday's opener, Rodriguez needed just 10 pitches to earn his first save in his promotion as the team's new closer. But on Wednesday his successor in the setup role, Brendan Donnelly, failed to hold a one-run lead when he gave up a two-out, two-run eighth-inning homer to Richard Hidalgo.

So Rodriguez shouldered the load and took it one step further, playing setup man, closer and would-be winning pitcher with a pair of scoreless innings. But it was the Rangers who ultimately rallied for a 3-2 win in 12 innings on Alfonso Soriano's homer off Bret Prinz.

Such is the process the Angels find themselves in as they work through the flow of the late innings in search of the right formula.

The game had marched along in familiar order Wednesday as Jarrod Washburn tossed six scoreless innings in his first start of the year. It was a night when he felt he would be knocked from the game with the next swing from a powerful Rangers lineup, but one instead that he left after throwing 92 pitches and his team holding a slim 1-0 margin.

"I felt a helluva lot better than my whole career of first starts," Washburn said. "The bottom line is I put up zeroes and kept us in the ballgame, so I felt pretty good about my outing."

Garret Anderson had staked Washburn and the Angels to an early lead as he teamed with Vladimir Guerrero on back-to-back doubles in the bottom of the first to produce a run. Washburn enjoyed only one hitless inning on the night, but he got the strikeout when he needed it and a key defensive play when he needed that even more.

The Angels choked off a run with a textbook cutoff and relay in the fourth, when Gary Matthews Jr. tried to score from first on a one-out double to left-center by Rod Barajas. Steve Finley fielded the ball on one hop, threw in to shortstop Orlando Cabrera, who turned and fired a strike to Bengie Molina for the out at home.

Then it was the bullpen's turn, a unit that has contributed so much to the Angels' recent success, but one that will take some time to find its new identity.

Since the late-season run to the pennant and World Series title in 2002, the back end of the bullpen fell neatly into place with Rodriguez setting up Troy Percival. There is no doubt who the closer now is, but after Rodriguez, manager Mike Scioscia is working with a trio of right-handers in Scot Shields, Esteban Yan and Donnelly in search of the right combination.

Shields needed just 12 pitches in a scoreless seventh and Donnelly appeared in control in the eighth. He allowed a one-out single to Michael Young, but erased him on a fielder's choice by Mark Teixeira. Then the first pitch to Hidalgo caught too much of the plate.

"It went down and it didn't slide," Donnelly said of his slider that was supposed to break out of the strike zone. "It went directly into the barrel of his bat."

It was the first meeting between the two players and Donnelly ceded the first round to the Rangers' right-fielder.

"Hidalgo did a good job of hitting it out of the ballpark," Donnelly said.

Scioscia agreed, but did not feel his reliever was far from getting out of the inning.

"It wasn't that bad of a pitch," Scioscia said. "He didn't get it where he wanted it, but give Hidalgo credit -- he got enough of it."

Yan pitched a scoreless ninth and Darin Erstad tied the game and sent it into extra innings with a two-out RBI double in the bottom of the inning.

Rodriguez pitched the 10th and the 11th, allowing just a hit while striking out two. But despite putting three baserunners on in the 11th, the Angels could not find a winning rally of their own.

Prinz then watched Soriano take an outside pitch and curl it around the right-field foul pole to lead off the 12th for the ultimate game-winner.

The staff believes, though, that this bullpen will rise to meet the task and find its groove.

"I have confidence in every guy down there," Washburn said. "Nine times out of 10 they're going to get the job done and bring home a W."








