
ANAHEIM -- Shortstop Orlando Cabrera was scratched from Monday's lineup with a sore right elbow and replaced by Maicer Izturis.

X-rays were negative, but Cabrera said it was too painful to throw or swing the bat. He remains day-to-day.

"Today I couldn't even move my arm," Cabrera said of when he woke up Monday morning. "It felt like I threw nine innings yesterday."

Cabrera, who has not had an elbow injury before, said he first felt the pain about five days ago but it was not severe enough to keep him out of the lineup. He added that Monday was the first day that he felt he could not throw a ball and informed manager Mike Scioscia that he was unable to play when he arrived at the ballpark.

If the condition persists, Cabrera said the next step would be an MRI, but he feels the pain is more in the muscle than in the actual joint. Over the next few days Cabrera will take anti-inflammatory medication to help the condition calm down.

"Hopefully, it isn't serious," Cabrera said.

Turf wars: It's June 20 and technically still spring, meaning there is an entire summer left of baseball to sort out pennant races. So a series with divisional rival Texas is not quite the showdown it might be when the Angels play six of their last 13 games against the Rangers, but it does provide a measuring stick.

Monday opened a three-game series with the Rangers and the two clubs will meet again in a four-game set, beginning Monday, June 27 in Arlington. The Angels entered Monday with a 1 1/2-game lead in the American League West, so the series is important, but the team does not see these games as any more critical than others on the schedule at this stage.

"Naturally if you play in your division, a loss can be magnified, but our approach isn't any different than if we face a different club," Scioscia said. "It is not a matter of who you're playing, it is how you're playing. That is our challenge, keeping our focus."

Nice start: Jered Weaver allowed one run on three hits over three innings in his professional debut for Class A Rancho Cucamonga on Monday. The right-hander also walked two and struck out four.


Global approach: Plans are currently in the works for the World Baseball Classic, a tournament featuring teams from 16 nations. Many details have yet to be finalized, but the target is to hold the games in March 2006 during the second half of Spring Training.

Locations have not been determined, but according to a club spokesman, Major League Baseball has had preliminary fact-finding discussions about including Angel Stadium as one of the host ballparks.

Streaking: Darin Erstad extended his hitting streak to 20 games with a first-inning single Monday and scored on a two-run homer by Vladimir Guerrero. Erstad's streak also extended his career best and matched the longest in the Majors this season.

Signings: The Angels agreed to terms Monday with 16 players from the 2005 First-Year Player Draft. They are: shortstop P.J. Phillips, right-handed pitcher Tommy Mendoza, outfielder Jerome Moore,&#160; right-handed pitcher Robert Romero,&#160;right-handed pitcher Robert Mosebach, outfielder Bradley Coon,&#160;infielder Darrell Sales,&#160;infielder Ryan Pressley,&#160;right-handed pitcher John Sullivan,&#160;third baseman Dallas Morris,&#160;right-handed pitcher Kevin Lynch,&#160;first baseman Colby Overstreet,&#160;right-handed pitcher Timothy Didjurgis,&#160;shortstop Marco Albano,&#160;catcher Flint Wipke and outfielder Cody Fuller.

Interleague line: The Angels have a break in the Interleague schedule before concluding games with the opposite league with a three-game Freeway Series showdown with the Dodgers, beginning on Friday at Angel Stadium.

After dropping a 7-5 decision to the Marlins on Sunday, the Angels' Interleague mark this season fell to 9-6. The club is hitting .289 against National League teams this season, compared to a .259 mark against the AL. Erstad increased his career Interleague lead in hits (197) with an eighth-inning single Sunday.

Life of crime: Chone Figgins has 22 stolen bases entering Monday and is on pace to become the first Angel to steal at least 50 bags since Luis Polonia swiped 55 in 1993.

On deck: The Angels will host the Rangers in the second game of the three-game series at 7:05 p.m. PT on Tuesday. Right-hander Bartolo Colon will face Rangers right-hander Chan Ho Park.







