
ANAHEIM -- If only this string of games had meant something.

So strong was the belief they would be a factor at the end of the year, the entire clubhouse had circled the closing stretch of the schedule when the Angels would play the A's in seven of the final 10 games, including the last four.

But Oakland rendered the issue moot when it clinched the division in Seattle on Tuesday as the Angels endured a tough loss to the Rangers that effectively ended their season.

Proving a bit of a point, the Angels handed their division rival its second straight shutout as they blanked the A's, 6-0, on Friday for their second win in the series with two games remaining.

Tim Salmon started at designated hitter and went 2-for-4 with an RBI and Chone Figgins hit an inside-the-park homer while Ervin Santana tossed seven scoreless innings for his second straight win -- both over the A's.

That ensured the Angels of winning the season series against the A's for the third straight year and earned some respect in the process.

"Well, we're hitting .170 off this team, so that's part of it," said A's manager Ken Macha. "They have the best pitching staff in the league. That over there is a playoff team. That's why you play guys 35 days in a row."

Macha was referring to the strong push the A's made in the title drive as they focused on not only winning the American League West but also hoped to avoid a showdown with the Angels in the final weekend. It was the Angels that eliminated the A's the last two seasons to win the division.

Santana came into Friday's game with a 5-1 career mark against the A's, including the victory in his last start, when he held the A's to a run over eight innings to keep the Angels' thinning playoff hopes alive.

He stepped up that effort by shutting the A's down on three singles and three walks while pitching efficiently. Santana (16-8) struck out two as he eclipsed the 200-inning plateau for the first time in his career and continued to improve his stock.

"He repeated his strong effort of last year to have a terrific season," manager Mike Scioscia said. "For a guy to get 28 wins in two seasons, that is impressive."

Santana was included in a number of trade rumors at the July deadline and will likely draw interest this winter as the Angels look to improve their offense while other clubs try to bolster their pitching staffs. But the club is in no hurry to deal its winningest pitcher this season.

"Everybody's name gets thrown out there every once in a while, but what [owner] Arte Moreno and [general manager] Bill Stoneman and everyone is committed to is that our pitching is as strong as it can get, because that is the way we're going to win championships," Scioscia said. "To move one of those guys would have to be an incredible deal."

Esteban Loaiza (11-9) allowed four runs (three earned) on six hits and a walk with two strikeouts to take the loss.

The Angels got on the board in the bottom of the second when Howie Kendrick reached on a fielder's choice and Adam Kennedy followed with a one-out walk. Figgins then doubled down the left-field line to score Kendrick, and Jeff Mathis followed with a sacrifice fly to right field to score Kennedy, and the Angels led, 2-0.

Maicer Izturis led off the third with a single as the Angels put two more runs on the board. Orlando Cabrera followed with a single, and both runners advanced on a passed ball from Loaiza. Salmon then hit an RBI single to center to score Izturis, and Garret Anderson lifted a sac fly to right to score Cabrera and the Angels took a 4-0 lead.

Cabrera and Salmon led off the bottom of the fifth with base hits, and Kennedy followed later in the inning with an RBI single to right to score Cabrera as the Angels built a 5-0 lead.

In the eighth, Figgins pulled a line drive down the right-field line that drifted into the corner. Hiram Bocachica struggled to pick up the ball and then fell down as Figgins motored around to score. It was the first inside-the-parker for Figgins since Triple-A but the third for the Angels this season. Dallas McPherson and Vladimir Guerrero hit the others.

"I was thinking three, but when I hit second, I heard the crowd and thought I had a chance," Figgins said. "That was a lot of running."






