
TEMPE, Ariz. -- The challenge of dealing with one of the game's most lethal hitters clearly brought out the best in Dustin Moseley on Monday.

In three at-bats against the Angels right-hander, Manny Ramirez was caught looking twice on two-seam fastballs and pounded a sinker into the ground for a double play.











"He either didn't see 'em," Moseley said, "or he was up there looking. He wasn't budging. He thought it [the two-seamer] was a ball."

With his two-seamer acting like the one that belonged to the incomparable Greg Maddux, Moseley clearly is in the driver's seat in his bid for one of two rotation spots available in competition with Shane Loux and Nick Adenhart.

Extending himself to six innings and 89 pitches in a 10-4 Angels victory at Tempe Diablo Stadium, Moseley said he was strong enough to have pitched into the seventh. He yielded four runs (three earned) on eight hits and one walk, striking out three men.

"I thought those last two innings were better than the third and fourth," Moseley said. "I was getting on top of the ball, making good pitches."

The show was his duel with the charismatic Ramirez, who has made a nice living out of abusing pitchers -- including some wearing Angels uniforms, most notably in October.

"Any time you make pitches on a guy like Manny," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said, "it shows you've got good stuff -- and he did.

"Mose is deceiving. He's got good action on his fastball. He painted on [Ramirez]. He had good sequences."

Moseley has a 3.15 ERA in a staff-high 20 innings, with 15 strikeouts against five walks indicative of crackling good stuff.

"He had more left in him and finished strong," Scioscia said. "That's a good sign, getting to 90 and two more good starts left. We'll see where he falls in."

It appears likely that Moseley will fall into the fourth spot in the rotation, which would have him working the finale of a four-game series against the Athletics that opens the season at Angel Stadium.

"The biggest thing I've been able to do this spring is make a pitch, not get the result I wanted out of it, and let it go and move on to the next one," Moseley said.

"I read a Yogi-ism recently. He said, 'Don't worry about the past, because there's no future in it.' I like that."

Jeff Mathis might not be the next Yogi Berra, but the Angels catcher certainly is having a great spring. Launching his second homer in two days with a solo shot against former Angels right-hander Jeff Weaver, Mathis is hitting .343 in Cactus League play with a team-high four homers.

Also going deep for the second consecutive day, Robb Quinlan's two-run shot was his third home run in 29 Cactus League at-bats. Erick Aybar homered for the first time this spring, a two-run blast against Chad Billingsley, and also doubled and scored on a single by Chone Figgins.

Maicer Izturis made it a perfect offensive day for the shortstop position with an RBI single and a walk, and Brandon Wood's single in his lone at-bat lifted his average to .356.

Vladimir Guerrero collected his first hits of the spring, a pair of singles. Torii Hunter accepted the gift of a sun-splashed two-run triple, while Juan Rivera continued to smoke the ball with a double.

After Moseley finished his six innings, a pair of young Angels made nice impressions.

Trevor Reckling, a Livingston, N.J., native who won't be 20 until May 22, worked two scoreless innings, allowing one walk and one hit. Mason Tobin, a 21-year-old right-hander drafted and signed in 2007 out of Everett (Wash.) Community College, made his second appearance, once again retiring the side in order with one strikeout.

Pitching in a Minor League camp game in hopes of finding his breaking-ball form, new closer Brian Fuentes faced 10 batters and got five outs, striking out two men.






