
ANAHEIM -- Another rookie pitcher, another milestone victory.

Joe Saunders joined Dustin Moseley, who won his debut Monday, and Jered Weaver, who has opened the year 6-0, as the third rookie to record his first Major League victory for the Angels this season.

The Angels used a five-run frame and then held off the hard-charging Indians, 7-5, on Tuesday for their eighth straight victory and 13th in their last 14 games.

Juan Rivera homered twice and Howie Kendrick drove in a pair of runs as the Angels kept pace in the American League West, a half-game back of the A's, and improved to three games over the .500 mark for the first time this season. It was the third multihomer game this month for Rivera.

Orlando Cabrera also added a pair of highlight reel defensive plays, but the Angels were forced to suspend their postgame celebration briefly as the Indians scored three runs in the ninth on five base hits. Francisco Rodriguez was summoned to stem that tide after Kevin Gregg could not get the final out.

Gregg got two quick strikeouts and then allowed four hits before departing. Rodriguez allowed a run-scoring single, but induced a fly ball to right out of Todd Hollandsworth to end the game. All three runs were charged to Gregg.

"Those guys are lights out," Saunders said with the comfort of victory well in hand. "I had confidence in them."

Saunders (1-0) allowed a run in the first and an unearned run in the seventh, but was otherwise unflappable. The left-hander gave up four hits, walked four and struck out five for his first big-league win. Saunders had two no-decisions with the Angels last season.

"Joe showed what he is able to do," manager Mike Scioscia said. "He used his defense and made pitches when he needed to."

A pair of injuries has forced the Angels to adjust their rotation in the last week. Weaver was pushed back a start with biceps tendinitis near his right shoulder. That prompted the recall of Moseley, who picked up the win Monday and was sent back to Triple-A Salt Lake.

Saunders took the place of Kelvim Escobar, who is on the disabled list with a sore right elbow. Saunders mixed a cutter, changeup and two-seam fastball Tuesday to keep a strong lineup mostly in check. That helped to erase his last big-league outing, when he allowed six runs in two innings at Seattle.

"It was pretty special," Saunders said. "I got two starts last year and didn't get a win, but to get this one is special."

And like Moseley a night earlier, Saunders was optioned back to Salt Lake. The Angels have penciled in Escobar for Saturday and Weaver for Sunday which means both Moseley and Saunders will get likely get their next start in the Minors, but also, like Moseley, Saunders has no regrets.

"It is an honor to get called up and start," Saunders said. "This is part of the business."

Making life easier for Saunders was the defense, which backed him with five double plays as Cabrera contributed to all five and turned an unassisted pivot twice.

In the third, Cabrera made a quick dance to the side of a sliding Jason Michaels as he took the feed from Kendrick. Then in the fifth, he slid to his left to stop a hard smash from Kelly Shoppach and flipped the ball to Kendrick with his glove.

"It seems that most of the talk we hear about the defense is the plays we didn't make, but Orlando has made a number of great plays all year," Scioscia said. "We sure do miss him when he's not out there."

The Indians put a run on the board in the top of the first when Grady Sizemore walked and scored on an RBI single to left by Victor Martinez. The Angels took control from there, but it took awhile for them to get going against Cleveland starter Cliff Lee.

The left-hander did not allow a hit until Robb Quinlan doubled to left-center, but Lee can thank his defense for the support. Vladimir Guerrero hit a towering drive to center that had distance, but Sizemore leaped to rob the Angels slugger of a homer.

But in the top of the fourth, the Angels got to Lee as Cabrera led off the inning with a double and scored on a single to left by Guerrero. Mike Napoli then walked and Rivera flied to right to advance Guerrero to third.

Tim Salmon, who got the start at designated hitter with Lee on the mound, sliced a double down the right-field line to score Guerrero, and Kendrick followed with a two-run single to left. Quinlan got aboard on a fielder's choice and scored when a chop single to right by Chone Figgins was misplayed by Casey Blake for an error and the Angels led 5-1.

Rivera hit a solo homer in the sixth and another in the eighth.

Lee (9-7) allowed six runs, five earned, on seven hits and three walks with three strikeouts over five-plus innings to take the loss.






