
ANAHEIM -- With the Yankees in town, everyone begins thinking of titles and trades as their mere appearance spawns thoughts of both.

While Angels owner Arte Moreno covets the championship hardware, he's not as fond of the spend-at-any-cost approach. He's not afraid to open his wallet, he just wants to be sure there is value in both the present and future tense.

"We want to look long term to build a championship-caliber club," Moreno said.

The Angels boss agrees with general manager Bill Stoneman's philosophy that the strength of the organization is rooted in the farm system. With the trading deadline approaching, that belief will again be put the test. How do you weigh short-term gain against long-term risk?

Teams have until 1 p.m. PT on Sunday, July 31, to make a non-waiver trade. After that date, players must clear waivers before a deal can go through.

The Angels find themselves in a good position, leading the American League West by 6 1/2 games at the open of business Thursday. But they also had lost six of their last seven divisional games and suddenly there are two teams (Texas and Oakland) in their rear-view mirror.

Moreno realizes they can't be complacent.

"We're trying to improve as a team," Moreno said. "We want the right mix, but we don't want to disrupt the chemistry."

They're not perfect, but the Angels have few holes. The rotation is solid and the club has been able to fill the void left by the injury to Kelvim Escobar with rookie Ervin Santana. Though his starts have been spotty, the young right-hander can dominate a lineup and is 4-4 in nine starts.

While the bullpen may not be as deep as recent years, the back end of Francisco Rodriguez, Scot Shields and Brendan Donnelly allows manager Mike Scioscia to shorten games. One potential weak spot there is the absence of a left-hander.

The defense is solid and when clicking, the offense is productive, though a lack of overall power impacts the ability to rally from behind in the late innings. The club had only 14 home runs from its three primary designated hitters, Chone Figgins, Jeff DaVanon and Juan Rivera, so there is room for improvement, but the Angels do not want to compromise the future simply for the quick fix.

"You're really gambling on a player that is going to be a free agent after the season; you're gambling with chemistry," Moreno said of chasing the two-month rental. "We have a lot of depth in a lot of areas."

Change of pace: The Angels did not take batting practice Thursday in the hopes of waking up an offense that has been quiet over the last few games.

"We've done it before," Scioscia said. "You just want to take your mind off practice and the grind of the game to get us out of the little doldrums that we're in."

The Angels took three of four games in Minnesota, but then returned home to drop two of three games to the A's. The club had scored one run in the last 20 innings, entering Thursday. It also had only four extra-base hits and one home run since the All-Star break.

Scioscia also opted to sit Adam Kennedy against Yankees left-handed starter Randy Johnson. Kennedy, who has never faced Johnson, said he was fine physically.

"A.K. has been playing a lot," Scioscia said. "It is a good day for him today."

Emphasis added: Paul Byrd takes a winning approach every time he takes the hill, but he said there is an added quality to the games played within the division.

"Every game counts, but I enjoy it when it is a division rival," Byrd said. "The crowd is into it. I feel a little more pressure to succeed."

Byrd allowed three runs over six innings Wednesday, but took the loss against the A's.

Attendance: The Angels eclipsed the 2 million mark in fan attendance with Thursday's series opener with the Yankees. It was the eighth straight season the Angels have gone over 2 million and the 22nd time in franchise history. The Angels set their record with 3,375,677 fans last season.

On deck: The Angels will continue their four-game series with the Yankees on Friday at 7:05 p.m. PT. Right-hander John Lackey will face Yankees left-hander Al Leiter.








