
SURPRISE, Ariz. -- Matt Brown was a little stunned as he walked off the field at Surprise Stadium on Sunday, his Angels having rocked the Royals, 18-12, in a wind-aided slugfest.













"I've never even had a five-hit day," Brown said. "And today I get six."

Brown's colorful day began with a rocket to right-center for a run-scoring triple during a six-run, first-inning outburst against Royals southpaw Horacio Ramirez.

Brown singled to center in the second inning and had an infield hit in the fourth before lifting his first home run over the left-field wall in the seventh.

After a single in the eighth inning, he unloaded a bomb to left in the ninth, wrapping things up with the 15th homer of the day and eighth by an Angels hitter.

Also going deep for manager Mike Scioscia's troupe were Robb Quinlan, Juan Rivera, Mike Napoli, Jeff Mathis, Ryan Budde and Brandon Wood.

Rivera drove in four runs, with Wood and Budde joining Brown with three RBIs. Mathis had a perfect day with two singles and a walk along with his homer, and Erick Aybar also delivered three hits.

"He's having an incredible spring," Scioscia said of Brown, a 26-year-old corner infielder who starred for Team USA in the Beijing Summer Olympics. "He's jumped up on our depth chart, no doubt about it."

It's a loaded depth chart, one that could send Brown -- and a collection of other gifted young Angels -- back to the farm by April 6 when the season opens in Anaheim. Only 25 players get to represent the club on Opening Day, and the Angels have between 30 and 35 athletes clearly capable of playing in The Show.




YARDBALL
Most combined home runs in a regular-season game
HomersTeamsDate
12Tigers 6, White Sox 6July 2, 2002
12Tigers 7, White Sox 5May 28, 1995
11Tigers 8, Cubs 3June 18, 2006
11Cubs 6, Phillies 5May 17, 1979 (10 inn.)
11Cubs 6, Reds 5July 28, 1977 (13 inn.)
11Cubs 7, Mets 4June 11, 1967 (Game 2)
11Pirates 6, Reds 5Aug. 12, 1966 (13 inn.)



Brown has Chone Figgins and Wood ahead of him at third base, Kendry Morales and Quinlan in front of him at first. Brown also can play the corner outfield positions, where the Angels are stacked in talent.

"If there's a chance for guys to contribute," Scioscia said, "they're going to be here. If not, they'll be in Triple-A. It's that simple."

A natural third baseman who has learned to play first with his athleticism, Brown is making a resounding statement with his .543 Cactus League average and team-high 15 RBIs in 35 at-bats.

"I'm just playing, showcasing what I can do to try to make them look my way," Brown said. "There's not much else I can do, especially with one option left."

That means the Angels have one more season to move Brown around from Salt Lake to Anaheim, if he's unable to find a steady job in the bigs.

"They know I can hit in Triple-A," Brown said. "They know I need to get a real opportunity to play every day at the big league level and see what I can really do.

"I've had tastes [of the Major Leagues]. I've never played two days in a row. One-fifty, 200 at-bats, that's what I'm waiting for. I feel like I need to be at the big league level. If someone goes down, I can fill in and pick up for them.

"I'll play anywhere if I need to, as long as I can play up here."

Wood, in a similar situation to Brown, is batting .349 with three homers and 12 RBIs in 43 at-bats.

"We have some guys ahead of them [on the depth chart]," Scioscia said. "But a guy who's swinging a bat and contributing can certainly carve out a role for us -- and Matt's in that category."

Brown conceded the wind -- at 26 mph with gusts up to 36 -- played a part in his huge day.

"Let's be honest, I probably had three legit hits," Brown said. "The rest were wind-aided. The first home run was a routine fly ball. I tried to put good swings on the ball, and it dropped six times. I got a little lucky.

"The ball was absolutely flying out of this park."






