
ARLINGTON -- The mere appearance of Kendry Morales was enough to push the Angels back into the win column.

In his first game as a big leaguer, Morales singled in his first at-bat and drilled a two-run homer in his second trip to the plate to highlight a 3-for-5 night. The first baseman also turned a key defensive play in the eighth inning to throw out a lead runner.

With Morales adding some spark, the rest of the lineup responded with 14 hits as the Angels pulled out a 7-6 win over the Rangers on Tuesday night.

And through it all, Morales demonstrated a composure beyond his 22 years.

"I've been trained back home to control myself," Morales said through an interpreter. "I've been through this before."

The win halted the Angels' losing streak at six games and put them in a position to win their first series since April 24-26 at home against Detroit.

"This is huge, to come in here and to play a team that is playing well," said Adam Kennedy, who tied a career high with four hits. "Hopefully, it will be big for us."

Vladimir Guerrero went 2-for-4, including a solo homer in the first inning that extended his hitting streak against the Rangers to 41 games, and every starter in the lineup except Juan Rivera got at least one base hit on the night.

John Lackey left the game with a lead and, although Brendan Donnelly handed it back briefly when Michael Young took him deep with a two-run homer in the seventh, four relievers combined over the final 2 2/3 innings to shut down the Rangers, with Francisco Rodriguez handling the ninth for his 11th save.

Hector Carrasco (1-2) tossed one-third of an inning for the win; Francisco Cordero (3-3) took the loss.

"Tonight we did a lot of things that we need to do to get back on track to win these games," manager Mike Scioscia said. "We've lost a lot of games by putting pressure on our pitching staff. But tonight we got the offense we needed. We've had an incredibly difficult stretch, probably the toughest stretch since we've been here. But these guys come to the park ready to play every day."

There were holes to be sure.

After going 0-for-8 with runners in scoring position in Monday's series opening loss, the Angels went 1-for-12 with runners in scoring position Tuesday, but they kept pressing throughout to gain an advantage.

Twice catcher Mike Napoli went first-to-third on base hits by Kennedy, scoring a go-ahead run in the sixth on Orlando Cabrera's ground ball. Then in the eighth after Napoli walked to lead off the inning, pinch-runner Tommy Murphy went first-to-third on Kennedy's fourth base hit of the night and scored the tying run on a sac fly to right by Cabrera.

"If we're going to win, we have to get into our game," Scioscia said. "We're encouraged because that team across the way has played some terrific baseball. We coupled some things tonight by scoring some runs, and even though we didn't do well with runners in scoring position, we got what we needed."

The Angels struck first when Chone Figgins beat out an infield hit to lead off the game and scored on Cabrera's RBI double to right, and Guerrero then drilled a homer for a 2-0 Angels lead.

After the Rangers scored in the bottom of the first on Hank Blalock's double, Morales gave the Angels a 4-1 lead with a two-run shot that just cleared the wall in right and bounced back into the field of play, prompting first-base umpire Rick Reed to rule it a double. The umpiring crew held a quick conference and the call was overturned, giving Morales the homer.

In the bottom of the third, Kennedy struggled with three straight ground balls. Two baserunners reached by fielder's choice and Kennedy was charged with an error on a grounder by Kevin Mench to extend an inning that easily could have been 1-2-3 for Lackey.

After Brad Wilkerson walked to load the bases, Mark DeRosa wiped them clean with a double off Lackey into the left-field corner to tie the game at 4.

"We had done some good things to that point and to give back a few outs makes it an uphill battle," Kennedy said.

After the Rangers carried a 6-5 lead into the eighth on Michael Young's two-run homer, Cabrera's sac fly tied the game and then Guerrero hit a sharp grounder to third baseman Blalock, who tried for an inning-ending double play. But second baseman DeRosa was ruled off the bag at second and Kennedy scored the go-ahead run.

Morales provided a lift all night, though, and his play in the eighth was pivotal. With Jason Botts aboard with a leadoff walk, Rod Barajas bunted down the first-base line. Morales charged the ball and turned and fired to second to get Botts. Scot Shields then struck out Gary Matthews Jr. and retired Young on a fly ball to center.

"I think everything came out right on that play because I knew the importance of it," Morales said. "It was good communication. I had the catcher yelling. It was a good executed play by everyone."

Lackey allowed four runs, one earned, on five hits and three walks over six innings. Rangers starter Vicente Padilla allowed four runs on 11 hits over five innings.

"We need more than one win, but it is a start," Lackey said. "You can't win two until you win the first one."






