
OAKLAND -- Garret Anderson took over the team lead in home runs on Saturday and it was a positive note in more ways than one.

Anderson hit his fourth home run on a cool and breezy afternoon, and his second in as many days as part of a 4-for-4 day.

And what is nearly equal in importance to the fact that the Angels held off the A's for a 5-4 win and pulled even in a series that concludes on Sunday, is that Anderson is swinging the bat with some authority.

That Anderson put the ball in play safely against the A's on Saturday should also come as no great surprise -- he hits better at McAfee Coliseum than anywhere else. The Angels left fielder and occasional DH increased his career batting average at the East Bay ballpark to .349.

His afternoon also dovetailed nicely with the book on Anderson versus the A's, a team that he's hit better than any other during his 13 years in the big leagues.

Couple that with six mostly solid innings from Jeff Weaver, and three shutout frames from the bullpen, and the Angels were able to even the series and return to .500, while marking the 13th game in the last 23 between the two teams that has been decided by one run.

"It is always real good pitching and real good defense," said Scot Shields, who pitched a perfect eighth. "There are pretty good pitchers on both teams. It is good baseball and it is fun to play against them."

Anderson agreed.

"They have a good team, a very good team," Anderson said. "They might be a team that you love to hate, but I have great respect for them."

Anderson was bothered by a lower back problem and tendinitis in his left knee last year. He did not go on the disabled list, but the nagging injuries cut 20 games from his season.

This spring, Anderson was out nearly three weeks with a strained left arch and played in just nine Cactus League games, but he's played in every game in the regular season.

Four starts at designated hitter, including Friday when his heel flared during batting practice, has allowed Anderson to remain in the lineup as the club gives him the occasional break from left field.

Anderson said there are no great secrets.

"I'm just not missing [the ball]. I just haven't missed those pitches," Anderson said. "Sometimes I pop those up, but the last two nights I haven't missed them."

Anderson hit a solo homer in the sixth inning of Friday's game that temporarily handed his team the lead. On Saturday, he went deep off A's starter Dan Haren (0-2), as the Angels built a 2-0 lead. Anderson also added three singles to his line.

He has eight hits in the last three games and is hitting .444 in his last nine contests.

"He has that ability to get on streaks and square balls up and use the whole field," manager Mike Scioscia said. "He is a good hitter, so it is not surprising that he gets on a roll."

Anderson had half of his team's eight hits on Saturday, but Adam Kennedy also drove in a run with a double during the Angels' three-run fifth. Kennedy later scored on a wild pitch from Haren, who suffered the loss for Oakland. Tim Salmon had an RBI single in the frame. Vladimir Guerrero opened the scoring when he singled home Chone Figgins in the first.

The efficient offense helped Weaver to earn his first victory as a member of the Angels.

Weaver, who signed as a free agent in February, had been having trouble in the early innings, but, on Saturday, he was sharp. The right-hander retired the first eight batters he faced before Dan Johnson singled with two out in the third.

He allowed four runs on six hits and a walk with five strikeouts. His lone mistake on the afternoon was a 1-0 curveball in the fifth that he tried to sneak past Nick Swisher, but the A's left fielder crushed it for a grand slam, the first of his career and his seventh home run this season.

"The first one is usually the toughest one to get, especially when you come to a new club. Maybe you put too much pressure on yourself," Weaver said. "[My teammates] put five runs up for me. But I have to stay away from that one pitch that tends to get me into trouble."

Weaver (1-2) was lifted after a perfect sixth inning. Brendan Donnelly, Shields and Francisco Rodriguez proceeded to hold the one-run lead while allowing just two baserunners, the first on Johnson's single off Donnelly in the seventh and the second on Rodriguez's two-out walk to pinch-hitter Frank Thomas in the ninth.

Shields needed just 11 pitches to get through the eighth and Rodriguez earned his sixth save, striking out Johnson to end the game.

"It is the best in the league, there is no doubt in my mind," Weaver said of the Angels pen. "Any time you can get into the sixth or seventh inning with a lead, [it] is pretty much over."








