
ANAHEIM -- Bartolo Colon returned to the mound on Sunday, but not even he could fix what has been the real problem for the Angels all season.

Errors.

Shortstop Maicer Izturis botched a Khalil Greene grounder with two outs in the top of the fourth inning, the Angels' 12th error in their now-completed 10-game homestand.  The gaffe eventually led to back-to-back run-scoring singles and sent the Angels on the road on a sour note, with a 7-3 loss to the Padres at Angel Stadium.

Colon's outing was otherwise viewed as a positive step in the ace regaining the form he displayed last year when he won the American League Cy Young Award.

"He was sharp," manager Mike Scioscia said.  "Hopefully, he'll keep getting sharper from here, but it is what we expected."

The right-hander was put on the disabled list with shoulder inflammation that began with a shoulder strain during last year's AL Division Series. After dominating for the Dominican Republic in March's World Baseball Classic with a 0.64 ERA in three starts, Colon suffered a setback this year after his first three starts and was placed on the DL in mid-April.

The ace went through three rehab starts, but was hardly himself.  He allowed eight earned runs in 15 2/3 innings and averaged in the low 90s on his fastball, below his normal speed on a four-seamer.  Colon later acknowledged that he was holding back some during the outings and, after Sunday's performance, said he felt fine letting loose.

"I felt I was able to throw harder earlier than in my rehab starts," he said through a translator.

Colon reached 94 mph several times on the radar gun and showed no ill effects.  He said after the game he felt "no discomfort whatsoever" in his shoulder.

He did miss on his location a couple of times and two of those mistakes were blasted out of the ballpark.  Mike Cameron hit a 2-0 fastball to dead center in the top of the first and Adrian Gonzalez knocked a 94 mph heater to right in the fourth.




Complete coverage &gt;

"With Cameron, with a 2-0 count, I just tried to throw a strike and didn't locate the pitch," Colon said.  "With Gonzalez, I made the same pitch when I struck him out [looking in the first] but I left it in."

The first major step is now out of the way, with a strong outing proving to Colon (0-3) he's not far off from attaining the dominating stature he showed last season.  But, the ace insisted, he's not there yet.

"There's a sense of relief, but the fact we lost the ballgame is a more important story," Colon said.  "I know I have to work harder than at any other point in my career to get stronger."

Colon has been absent much of the time the Angels have stumbled to a league-high 56 errors and Major League-worst 51 unearned runs allowed.

Izturis' error occurred when he ranged to his right in an attempt to backhand Greene's quick grounder, but the ball glanced off his glove and into the outfield. Colon didn't blame the shortstop, saying he figured the ball was a hit anyway. Error or not, Colon was forced to continue pitching in the fourth and gave up RBI singles to Vinny Castilla and Josh Barfield for a 4-2 Padres lead.

"We cracked the door open for them a little, but they came through with the two-out hits," Scioscia said.

The Angels bullpen later swung that door wide open and surrendered three runs in the final two innings to prevent another ninth-inning Rally Monkey montage on the scoreboard.

Garret Anderson and Tim Salmon helped stake the Angels to a 2-1 lead in the first.  Anderson drove in Adam Kennedy with a double and Salmon knocked home Anderson with a single.  Chone Figgins slapped an outside pitch to left to drive in the Halos' final run in the fifth.

The defeat dropped the Angels to a season-high seven games behind first-place Oakland in the AL West.  The Angels' next 12 games are against National League West opponents, contests in which they are 1-5 thus far.

During their 4-6 homestand, the Angels scored more than four runs only once.  The drought all comes a week after the club's offense seemed to get in gear in averaging 7.3 runs a game on its trip to Cleveland and Tampa Bay.

Aside from shortstop Orlando Cabrera, who got a rest on Sunday, no Angels regular hit better than .275 during the 10-game span.

"It's a little frustrating," Scioscia said.  "We need to play better than to scrape for every win -- we need offense and defense to support good pitching."

While Colon's presence is welcome, his return helps the one part of the club that didn't figure to need much help.  After struggling mightily during May with a team ERA of 5.08 ERA, Angels starters have picked up their effort, tossing 21 quality starts in their last 25 games.

"We still have too much talent to be held down," Colon said.  "I know we'll be a good second-half team."






