
CLEVELAND -- The Angels apparently didn't C.C. Sabathia on the memo.

While the Indians left-hander was one of the hottest pitchers in baseball coming into Sunday night's contest, the Angels had set aside many of their early-season struggles and were looking to win for the eighth time in their last 11 games

When Chone Figgins homered on the seventh pitch of the game, it was clear Sabathia was behind in his studies.

The Angels never let up to forge a 16-hit attack that was powered by four home runs to record a 14-2 rout of the Indians and take the series.

Just a day earlier, the Indians had put a 14-2 hurt on the Angels.

Figgins hit his fourth career leadoff homer while Vladimir Guerrero, Mike Napoli and Dallas McPherson also homered Sunday as the Angels won their fourth straight series after not winning a series in their previous eight.

"We're just playing good and everybody is doing their job and we're winning games," said Guerrero through an interpreter. "We're playing more as a unit."

The Angels now head into Tampa Bay with a bit of momentum. While they still remain five games back of Texas in the American League West, the Angels have pulled out of the cellar and can boast a winning record against the AL Central.

Lost in the offensive onslaught was the pitching of John Lackey, who turned in a two-hitter over seven innings of work. The right-hander faced the minimum through the first three innings before leading off the fourth by hitting Grady Sizemore and allowing a single to left by Jason Michaels.

Lackey (4-3) walked four and fanned three to pick up his first win since April 26.

"The biggest key tonight was the guys scoring runs for me," Lackey said. "That let me ease into it and use a little more of the plate and not worry about the home run, because they have quite a few guys with power on that team."

Taking the loss was Sabathia, who entered the game with a three-start winning streak and wins in five of his last six starts. Sabathia (5-2) was outclassed from the opening bell, though, and allowed seven runs on eight hits and four walks with five strikeouts over five innings.

"He is one of the best pitchers in our league, and he has been throwing the ball very well," manager Mike Scioscia said. "We had a good idea in the batter's box and squared some balls up. He is an outstanding pitcher and he wasn't able to get the ball in the zones he wanted."

The Angels jumped out to a quick lead when Figgins led off the game with a shot to left on a 3-2 pitch from Sabathia. It was Figgins' third home run this season, and Guerrero followed two batters with his 15th homer this season. The right-fielder reached for a low and outside changeup and pulled it down the left-field line, cracking his bat in the process, a first for him.

"He's got those long arms and when he gets that extension he is able to hit the ball a long way," Scioscia said.

Tim Salmon then singled and scored on a double to left-center by Kendry Morales. Sizemore hit the wall and nearly made the catch, but the ball popped free and Salmon scored from first base and the Angels led, 3-0.

After Orlando Cabrera drove in a run with a single in the top of the second, the Angels put three more on the board in the third.

Salmon walked with one out and went to third on a single by Morales. Juan Rivera then lifted a sac fly to center to score Salmon before Napoli drilled his third homer of the year, a two-run shot that gave the Angels a 7-0 lead.

Morales went 3-for-5 on Sunday after getting two hits in his last 22 at-bats.

"Sometimes you can add depth to your club and it can help your whole lineup," Scioscia said of the addition of Morales. "It has helped Vlad, it has helped Garret [Anderson], it has helped Timmy. You can't pinpoint one guy, but it has added depth throughout."

The Angels ran away with it by scoring four more runs in the top of the sixth. Cabrera singled to right with one out and Guerrero followed with a two-out single to left and Salmon was hit by a pitch to load the bases.

Morales then lined a two-run double into the left-field corner, Rivera followed with a two-run single to left and the Angels led, 11-0. McPherson hit a pinch-hit home run to right in the eighth.

With the Angels leading 14-0 in the bottom of the ninth, Victor Martinez and Ben Broussard hit back-to-back solo homers off Francisco Rodriguez to put the Indians on the board.






