
 PADRES 4, ANGELS 4 (10) 
at Tempe, Ariz. 
Monday, March 24

Padres at the plate: Khalil Greene produced an RBI double after Jody Gerut's triple and also singled, stole a base and had a sacrifice fly. Tad Iguchi singled twice, stole a base and scored a run, and Tony Clark delivered an RBI single and a double. Brian Myrow's big spring continued with a solo homer in the eighth, his first, lifting his Cactus League average to .400.

Angels at the plate: A .449 hitter this spring, leading the team in hits (22) and runs scored (13), Gary Matthews Jr. singled before leaving the game with a sprained ankle sustained running the bases in the first inning. Chone Figgins singled and left the game in the sixth inning with tightness in muscles between fingers in his left hand. Reggie Willits and Kendry Morales had RBI singles.

 Padres on the mound: In his best outing of the spring, Randy Wolf tied the Angels in knots with his offspeed stuff, holding them to five hits in six shutout innings, with one walk and two strikeouts. Right-hander Adam Bass was touched for four hits and two runs in the seventh, striking out one man. Glendon Rusch struck out two in one perfect inning.

 Angels on the mound: In the longest outing of the spring by an Angels pitcher, Ervin Santana yielded three earned runs on nine hits in seven innings, striking out four hitters while walking none. Darren O'Day gave up his third Cactus League run in 15 2/3 innings on Myrow's homer, striking out one. Jason Bulger pitched a scoreless ninth, allowing one hit.

 Cactus League records: Padres 11-11; Angels 17-7.

Up next for the Padres: The Padres face the Royals at 7:05 p.m. PT on Tuesday at the Peoria Sports Complex. Justin Germano gets the start for the Padres and likely will throw six innings. Germano is still considered the favorite to win the fifth starter spot in the starting rotation.

Up next for the Angels: Nick Adenhart gets another audition for a starting role in Tucson when he faces the Diamondbacks and 2006 Cy young Award winner Brandon Webb at 1:05 p.m. PT on Tuesday. Adenhart has a 2.89 Cactus League ERA in 18 2/3 innings with a 2-1 record. He has walked only three hitters while striking out 13. Adenhart will have one more spring start, in a camp game on Sunday, as he tries to make the jump from Double-A Arkansas to the Major Leagues in John Lackey's vacated starting spot. Dustin Moseley also is making a strong bid for the job.






