
TEMPE, Ariz. -- Matt Brown is one of the hottest hitters in the Majors this spring, but he can't buy a Cactus League start.

So it goes with the Angels, a team loaded with high-caliber talent all over the field. They have at least four shortstops and four second basemen capable of playing in the Major Leagues right now, and as many as three third basemen and three first basemen with prime-time talents.











One of the stars of Team USA's bronze-medal showing in the Beijing Summer Games, Brown knows he must put his place on the depth chart -- third at third, third at first -- out of his mind as he goes about his business.

"It requires a lot of telling yourself not to think about it," Brown said. "You try to think about things you can control. I just have to play the game when I get a chance and see what happens.

"If I get sent down [to Triple-A Salt Lake] this year, I'll be out of options."

With his ability to hit in the .280 range with at least 20 homers, drive in runs and play capable defense at multiple positions, Brown would have to be appealing to a number of clubs.

Angels manager Mike Scioscia certainly doesn't underestimate Brown's talents.

"This guy for the first two months of [2008] was hitting .400 at Salt Lake," Scioscia said. "This guy has made huge strides in the batter's box the last couple years, culminating in the Olympic experience. He played well. That's exciting for what his future is.

"This guy -- especially with guys in scoring position -- is having a good spring."

This guy Brown came into Thursday's home game against the Rockies at Tempe Diablo Stadium batting .533 with a .636 on-base percentage. He has driven in six runs in 15 at-bats.

And yet he has made all of one start, against the Royals, unless you count an exhibition against South Africa.

None of this is new to Brown. He understands that the presence of Chone Figgins and Brandon Wood at third and Kendry Morales and Robb Quinlan at first leave him with few opportunities to show what he can do.

"It's almost like we have two Major League teams here," Brown said.

For evidence, consider how Salt Lake opened the 2008 season. The Bees were 22-2 when Brown -- batting .425 and leading the Minor Leagues with 80 total bases -- was recalled last April 30. He wasn't with the big club long enough to get his bearings, returning three days later to the Pacific Coast League.

"It's frustrating, but that's the way it is," he said. "It was incredible, unbelievable really, what we were doing at Salt Lake. We were winning by six, five, eight runs, putting up 10 runs a game. It was ridiculous.

"It's a reflection of the scouting for the Angels and their ability to develop players into Major Leaguers at a pretty rapid rate."

And the result can be a logjam of athletes. Brown, like so many of his early-to-mid-20s teammates, can't help but wonder when a real opportunity to perform in The Show will surface.

If that happens this season, Brown, at 26, feels he'll be ready to deliver. He drove in a team-high 10 runs in Beijing, including three in the bronze-medal game against Japan. Coming through on the world stage brought the right-handed hitter to a new confidence level.

"It was extremely helpful," said Brown, who focused on generating more leg drive with his stroke last season with positive results. "Getting called up to the Major Leagues is similar to the Olympics in the sense that you've got to be ready to go, to deal with pressure.

"The Olympics help you deal with pressure. I think it will propel me to have success in those situations. I've had a lot more confidence in pressure situations since Beijing."

Like Sean Rodriguez, another of the gifted young Angels in search of steady employment in Anaheim, Brown has expanded his horizons and furthered his options by learning new positions along the way.

"I played second base my first year of pro ball and in 2007," he said. "Give me a couple of weeks to get adjusted, and I can play second. I've also played left and right field as well as first."

A native of Bellevue, Wash., and selected in the 10th round of the 2001 First-Year Player Draft, Brown has climbed steadily through the system in eight professional seasons.

In his two years at Salt Lake, he has raised his average from .276 in 2007 to .320 last year and lifted his slugging percentage from .509 to .580.

Trying too hard to impress in his rare opportunities in Anaheim the past two seasons, Brown has one hit, a double, in 19 at-bats, driving in three runs.

"You have to learn to put your frustration aside," Brown said, "and use it to fuel your fire a little bit."






