
ANAHEIM -- He isn't the type to give those famed motivational speeches. He won't criticize a teammate for a lack of effort. He will never find reason to call a players-only meeting.

The Angels have other veterans that lead in those conventional manners. Vladimir Guerrero chooses to do it with his bat.

Guerrero's name can be found all over the American League statistical leaderboard. Now it can also be found on the list of 2006 American League Hank Award Award finalists.

The first phase of balloting for the Hank Aaron Award was conducted from Aug. 2-31, allowing fans to vote for the most outstanding offensive performer in each league. One nominee from each club was among the choices, and that fan vote reduced the field to the top six vote-getters per league. The final phase now will be conducted on MLB.com through Sept. 30, and again fans will choose one player from each league. Those two players with the most votes will be announced at a presentation ceremony during the World Series.

Since 1999, the 25th anniversary of Aaron breaking Babe Ruth's all-time home run record, Major League Baseball has recognized the best offensive performer from each league with the Hank Aaron Award presented by CENTURY 21. Past recipients include Barry Bonds (three times), Alex Rodriguez (three times), Manny Ramirez (twice), Albert Pujols, Todd Helton, Sammy Sosa and Carlos Delgado. Last year's winners, selected during balloting during the regular season's final month on MLB.com, were Boston's David Ortiz and Atlanta's Andruw Jones.

As balloting continues this September, Guerrero will be competing for the AL side of the award against Derek Jeter, Justin Morneau, Paul Konerko, Travis Hafner and Ortiz.

Guerrero is the perfect example of the quiet superstar. He lumbers through the Angels clubhouse with a cool and confident swagger and simply performs at the plate.

In a season in which the seven-time All-Star saw his average drop to .284 on June 27, Guerrero has made a full recovery. The mark was the lowest Guerrero's average has dipped that late into a season. On the heels of an August in which the Dominican Republic native batted .393, Guerrero is in the running for his first AL batting title.

And don't forget about the power numbers.

Guerrero recently passed the 100-RBI barrier for the eighth time in the last nine seasons. Along with his team-leading home run total, Guerrero's offensive production has given the once-struggling Angels a chance to play meaningful games in September.

"Vlad is the cornerstone of our offense," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "He has always been there."

There's no mistake that the Angels' vault back into contention coincided with Guerrero's resurgence at the plate. Two days after the right fielder broke out of what was an 11-for-78 (.148) slump, the Halos went on a 13-1 tear.

Guerrero's presence in the Halos dugout is so vital that, even when teammate Orlando Cabrera was in the midst of his 63-game streak of reaching base safely, he deferred to Guerrero immediately as the club's offensive stalwart.

"Vladdy carries the team -- that's his job," Cabrera said.






