
ANGELS 4, BREWERS 4
at Tempe, Ariz.
Saturday, March 21

Angels at the plate: Kendry Morales banged his second homer of the spring, a solo shot the opposite way to left in the seventh inning for a 3-2 lead. Maicer Izturis singled and walked, scoring a game-tying run in the sixth inning on Howie Kendrick's sacrifice fly. In the fifth inning, Juan Rivera hit a ball about 450 feet down the left-field line that was ruled foul, bringing manager Mike Scioscia out of the dugout running in protest -- to no avail. Rivera then popped out. Alberto Rosario tied it in the 10th with a single but was stranded on third.

Brewers at the plate: Brad Nelson doubled twice, driving in a pair of runs. Corey Hart, Jason Kendall and Bill Hall also doubled. Prince Fielder doubled home a tying run in the eighth inning, and Tony Gwynn Jr. knocked in a short-lived go-ahead run in the 10th.

Angels on the mound: Nick Adenhart struck out six hitters in five innings, yielding one earned run on four hits while walking one. Kevin Jepsen yielded one run in two innings on two hits and a walk. Justin Speier surrendered a tying run in the eighth on a two-out walk and Fielder's double into the right-field corner.

Brewers on the mound: Dave Bush retired 15 of the first 16 men he faced, yielding only a one-out single in the third inning, before a walk, a hit batsman, a sacrifice fly and a wild pitch produced two runs without the benefit of a hit in the sixth inning. Bush struck out two, with 11 of his outs coming on fly balls. David Riske yielded a go-ahead run on a homer by Morales in the seventh. Riske, coming back from elbow surgery, has surrendered a run in all five of his Cactus League outings and has given up three home runs.

Cactus League records: Angels 16-4-1; Brewers 11-8-1.

Up next: The Angels travel to Surprise to face the Royals on Sunday at 1:05 p.m. PT. John Lackey will make his fifth start of the spring, facing southpaw Horacio Ramirez. Lackey went five innings in his most recent outing against the Padres, yielding one earned run. He's 2-1 with a 3.86 ERA. Expected to follow Lackey to the mound are right-handers Jose Arredondo, Jason Bulger and Rich Thompson.

For the Royals, Ramirez is expected to be followed by right-hander Robinson Tejeda and left-hander Lenny DiNardo.

Kelvim Escobar, continuing his comeback from shoulder surgery, will pitch in a Minor League camp game on Monday at the Tempe complex when the Angels face the Dodgers in the first Arizona installment of their traditional Freeway Series. Jered Weaver will get a chance to say hello to brother Jeff, who is expected to follow starter Chad Billingsley to the mound for the Dodgers.






