
ANAHEIM -- A couple of former Angels in Mariners attire crashed the big party planned for Angel Stadium on Friday night, spoiling it for the hosts.

Jarrod Washburn's left arm and Jose Guillen's bat turned the tables on manager Mike Scioscia's troupe, postponing its coronation as 2007 American League West champion by virtue of Seattle's 6-0 victory in front of 44,018 at Angel Stadium.

For seven innings, as Guillen was producing a homer, a double and a single in Seattle's 13-hit attack, Washburn silenced the Angels' slash-and-dash offense that had been rolling in high gear on its home turf with a .307 team batting average and 5.8 runs per game.

The Mariners snapped a four-game Halos winning streak and kept their magic number at one with eight games left.

"It feels good to win anytime," Washburn said, "but I definitely wanted to knock them off tonight and delay their celebration at least one more night."

In a related matter, the Indians (91-62) moved to the top in AL's best-record derby by a half-game over the Angels and Red Sox (both 91-63), with the Wild Card-leading Yankees (88-65) falling three games off Cleveland's pace.

If the playoffs were starting on Saturday, the Angels would be in Boston for Game 1 of the ALDS by virtue of the Red Sox's 6-4 season series edge over the Angels. The Yankees would be in Cleveland.

Washburn left no doubt that his heart would be with his old club in October.

"I'm going to be rooting for them and pulling for them," Washburn said. "I think they are the best team in the American League."

While Washburn was moving to 10-15, getting two innings of flawless relief from Brandon Morrow, Joe Saunders went 5 2/3 innings and absorbed the loss to go to 8-4.

"It would have been nice to finish it tonight," Saunders said. "But this game's all about momentum -- and it was all on their side. Wash shut us down offensively."

Washburn had been 1-9 with three no-decisions since July 4, and this was his first win since Aug. 21, ending an 0-5 spell. But he reached back and dispensed the brand of effort Scioscia came to expect from his ace in 2002, when the lefty was winning 18 games for a club on its way to a World Series crown.

The Angels didn't get a man in scoring position until the fourth, when singles by Vladimir Guerrero and Garret Anderson opened the inning. But Juan Rivera skied to center, and Howie Kendrick -- a .381 hitter since Aug. 1 coming into the game -- tapped into a double play.

Washburn left Reggie Willits stranded at second in the fifth after an infield hit and throwing error by Adrian Beltre when he retired another sizzling hitter, Chone Figgins, on a ground ball.

Figgins was making his first start against a left-hander since suffering a bruised bone outside his left wrist against the Yankees on Aug. 21 swinging the bat from the right side.

A .349 hitter against southpaws for the season, Figgins endured a rare hitless night. The dynamic catalyst was hitting .471 for the month (16-for-34) before going 0-for-4.

"Wash is one of the best competitors I've seen out on a baseball field," Scioscia said, crediting his former staff leader as an excellent role model for John Lackey, Francisco Rodriguez and Scot Shields when they were young pitchers on the rise.

"His example from the way he would prepare for a game to understanding his game plan and going out on the mound is something he learned from Chuck Finley, Troy Percival, guys like that," Scioscia added.

Saunders, in uncharted waters trying to nail down a division title, admitted to some nerves before the game.

"It was the first time I had an opportunity to clinch," he said. "It was just another game for me, but, obviously, it meant a lot more."

Saunders dueled Washburn zero for zero until the fourth. Guillen doubled and scored on Beltre's single, a line drive caroming off Saunders' lower left leg.

"Right below the calf," Saunders said, identifying the area of impact. "I'm sure there's going to be a nice bruise tomorrow. But I was good to go."

Shaking off the pain, Saunders remained in the game, inducing Jose Vidro to bounce into a double play.

Saunders wasn't as fortunate with Vidro in the sixth, when the Mariners scored three times to give Washburn some breathing room.

Singles by Jose Lopez and Raul Ibanez started the inning. Saunders struck out Guillen, but Beltre banged a double to right-center, scoring Lopez with Ibanez stopping at third.

Bringing the infield halfway up, the Angels watched Vidro slap a two-run single to the left of Cabrera into center field.

Two batters later, Jamie Burke stroked an RBI single to right-center, and Saunders' night was over. He'd given up five earned runs on nine hits and a walk, striking out three.

"I'd say I made some good pitches [in the sixth]," Saunders said. "They hit a couple bloops where we weren't, and I made a couple mistakes that hurt me. I missed a couple spots up in the zone. Beltre got a base hit on a 1-2 pitch."

Guillen's homer, his 21st of the season, led off the eighth against Rich Thompson.

"I don't know if anyone had [clinching] in the forefront of their minds," Scioscia said. "We're still in the mode of taking it one game at a time, playing a good ballgame."






