
ST. LOUIS -- The Angels lost starting pitcher Jered Weaver after three innings to lower back tightness, but he stuck around long enough to see why Albert Pujols is such an advocate of Sunday baseball.

"It was a slider that caught too much of the zone," Weaver said of the first of two Pujols homers that accounted for five runs in a 9-6 Cardinals victory that averted a weekend Interleague sweep by the Angels. "Anything that catches too much of the zone with him ... he's going to put it where [the fans] want to catch it."

The second, and most damaging, of Pujols' blasts landed in the Angels bullpen, where nary a soul moved to retrieve it.

It came against Chris Bootcheck in the fifth inning, turning a 4-3 deficit into a 6-4 cushion that comforted a crowd of 43,612 at Busch Stadium weary of watching the Angels populate and circle the basepaths.

Scott Spiezio, whose 2002 World Series homer against the Giants might be the most significant blow in Angels history, provided more relief for the Cardinals with a three-run shot in the seventh against Hector Carrasco for a four-run lead.

After producing 35 hits and 19 runs in the first two games, the Angels kept banging away. But nine hits and six runs, the last coming on Robb Quinlan's ninth-inning solo homer, were insufficient on Sunday -- aka Pujols Day in the Show Me State.

In 10 Sunday outings this season, Pujols has eight homers and 18 RBIs. This has served as salve on wounds to the battered psyche of Cardinal Nation, devastated by the April death of pitcher Josh Hancock in the wake of a magical October.

"[Pujols] is a great hitter, and the guys in front of him did a good job of getting on base in front of him," said Bootcheck, whose loss was his first against one win. "What can you say? You've got to go after him in that situation."

A slow track caused by persistent but manageable rains contributed to the Angels' inability to get an out on So Taguchi's roller to shortstop Orlando Cabrera following David Eckstein's leadoff single. Second baseman Howie Kendrick took Cabrera's flip -- too late -- and Taguchi beat his throw to first.

"I thought I made some good pitches [on the way to a 3-2 count against Pujols]," said Bootcheck, who'd rolled through a perfect sixth. "He'd been late on two fastballs away, and the first homer he hit [against Weaver] was on a slider.

"I threw him a fastball in, a pretty good pitch, I thought, and he hit it. I'm sure he'll do that again."

The Cardinals got 5 1/3 innings from right-hander Todd Wellemeyer (2-1), yielding five runs (four earned) on seven hits, and three relievers finished the job. Closer Jason Isringhausen surrendered the homer to Quinlan, his third.



Complete coverage &gt;  


With Casey Kotchman (right elbow swelling) and Garret Anderson (tightness in the right leg) taking a day off for precautionary reasons -- both are expected to play Tuesday in Cincinnati -- the Angels forged leads of 3-1 in the third inning and 4-3 in the fourth.

Smoking-hot Chone Figgins drove in a run with a single in the third, and equally-hot Cabrera knocked in a pair with a double. Shea Hillenbrand, at first for Kotchman, scored twice with a single and walk.

Three singles produced a run in the fourth, Mike Napoli driving in Gary Matthews Jr., who'd led off with a single and moved up on Kendrick's single.

Weaver lasted three innings, giving up three earned runs on five hits, before aggravating a back strain on the left side that surfaced in mid-May. He thought he'd gotten past it, and it didn't bother him during an at-bat -- his first since high school -- in the third inning resulting in a strikeout.

The incident that triggered the pain came during the third inning, he said, as he slipped on the damp mound making a delivery.

"Obviously, you never like to get taken out in the third and put pressure on the bullpen," Weaver said. "I tried to persuade [manager Mike Scioscia and pitching coach Mike Butcher] to stay out there, and they wouldn't hear it.

"I'm very disappointed. We get an extra day off [on Monday].  Hopefully, I can stay on top of it and keep the fire [in his back] down."

He experienced lower back pain on the right side while lifting weights at Long Beach State during his sophomore year.

"It lasted a week, week and a half, and it was gone," he said.

He hopes it's more of the same this time. The assignment against the Dodgers, the team of Weaver's childhood, is due to come up on Saturday. The kid from the San Fernando Valley doesn't want to miss that.






