
PHILADELPHIA -- In Joe Frazier's hometown, the Angels came out smokin' and never stopped.

Culminating in Sunday's 3-2 Citizens Bank Park decision started by Jered Weaver and finished by Francisco Rodriguez, the Angels succeeded in stripping the Phillies of their swagger with a three-game Interleague sweep in a duel of division leaders.

"They've got a great lineup, a great offense," said Rodriguez, whose 30 saves lead the Majors. "It was impressive to come in and take three from those guys. You have to make pitches. If you don't, they're going to let you know."





With their silence, Phillies fans let Weaver and Co. know they did their job in humbling the star-filled attack featuring Chase Utley, Ryan Howard and Pat Burrell, who had 59 homers combined coming into the series and still have 59.

A sellout crowd of 44,571 was stunned when the Angels erupted for three second-inning runs against Phillies ace Cole Hamels, punctuated by Casey Kotchman's thunderous two-run homer to right.

Kotchman's eighth homer of the season followed Vladimir Guerrero's single and Gary Matthews Jr.'s RBI single. It was all the offense the pitching staff would need.

Through 27 innings, the Phillies managed five runs and were out-homered, 5-1, by the Angels. That one solo blast, by Jayson Werth, came Saturday night against Joe Saunders.

"I didn't think that one was going, either," said Scot Shields, who thought it hitched a ride from a stiff wind blowing out to center field.

Taking over for Darren Oliver with one out in the seventh, Shields struck out Chris Coste and Utley to leave Jimmy Rollins stranded at second after his RBI double had shaved the deficit to one run.

With another strikeout in the eighth after a superlative diving catch in left by Reggie Willits, Shields sent seven of the 10 hitters he faced away on strikes in the space of 18 hours. He'd achieved the unlikely feat of four strikeouts in an inning Saturday night.

Shields credited his breaking ball, "for movement and placement" the best he's ever thrown, with putting him in good counts and finishing hitters off.













"They've got a great lineup, a great offense. It was impressive to come in and take three from those guys. You have to make pitches. If you don't, they're going to let you know."









-- Francisco Rodriguez












"He's a great pitcher, a versatile guy," K-Rod said of Shields. "This is what we've always done. To have a good closer, you have to have a great setup guy."

With four saves in the next three weeks, Rodriguez would carry more saves to the All-Star Game than any reliever in history.

"There's a pretty good chance we can do it," he said, grinning.

The back-end guys would not have been needed if Weaver hadn't delivered 5 1/3 stout innings. He could have buckled early, after Rollins singled, Greg Dobbs walked, and three stolen bases had them in scoring position.

But the Phillies were frustrated when Utley flied to left and Howard and Burrell went down swinging -- Howard on a changeup, Burrell on a 92-mph heater that had Weaver pumping a fist.

"The first inning was the game," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said.

One bad inning in seven was all it took to ruin Hamels' day, the loss his fifth in 12 decisions while Weaver moved to 7-7.

Guerrero, finishing the series 6-for-12 with three homers and five RBIs, dropped a single into left, pushing his hitting streak to 13 games. He moved up on an out before Matthews slashed a single to right-center.

Kotchman, who repeatedly has driven home the point that he has no problem with left-handed pitchers, convinced Hamels with a rocket conservatively estimated at 402 feet.

"I did feel it vibrate," said Kotchman, whose 36 RBIs are third on the club behind Guerrero's 42 and Torii Hunter's 37. "It was the first time I've seen [Hamels], so I was just looking for the baseball."

The Phils reached Weaver in the third with Utley, ending a career-long 0-for-24 drought, driving a two-out double and scoring on Howard's single.

Departing with one out in the sixth, Weaver struck out six and walked three while yielding four hits.

"We knew going in they obviously had a lot of power up and down the lineup," Weaver said. "I was trying to keep the ball down to get some ground balls." 

When he needed to put guys away, he found the necessary stuff. The Howard punchout, ending a 12-pitch duel, was especially impressive.

"That was a great battle," Weaver said. "The floating change kept him off balance."

Down to their last three outs, the Phillies didn't go quietly even after two quick outs. The first came when Kotchman sifted Chone Figgins' throw from deep third out of the dirt to erase Werth leading off the ninth.

"Casey and Orlando Cabrera have the softest hands of any guys I've seen since I've been playing," said Figgins, whose two singles hiked his average to .315.

Kotchman said this play was even more satisfying than the home run.

"If it gets by me, they've got a guy on second, if not third," Kotchman said. "That makes it an even more interesting inning."

Pedro Feliz singled with two outs and pinch-runner Eric Bruntlett stole second. Rollins was walked intentionally, bringing up pinch-hitter So Taguchi.

Falling behind, 2-0, in the count, Rodriguez dropped a curveball in on Taguchi, who lifted it harmlessly into foul territory, where Figgins snapped it up.

The Phillies, who entered the series with 42 more homers than the Angels, quietly departed knowing they'd been beaten at their own game for three long days and nights.

Smokin' Joe would have been impressed -- with the Angels.






