
OAKLAND -- Losing Bartolo Colon for most of the 2006 season allowed the organization to explore its pitching depth, and the findings were positive.

A pair of rookies, Jered Weaver and Joe Saunders, are a combined 17-5 this season, which has helped the club to partly bridge the gap caused by the loss of Colon. But getting the 2005 Cy Young winner back in the rotation is a priority.

The veteran right-hander is currently rehabbing in Arizona as he tries to recover from a partially torn rotator cuff and will be examined this week by team orthopedist Dr. Lewis Yocum to assess progress. The Angels remain cautiously optimistic that Colon will be ready for next season, but he is not likely to pick up a ball anytime soon.

"Throwing will be the next step in his progression, but there will be a lot of steps before he is ready to pitch in a Major League game," manager Mike Scioscia said. "We feel that he will be very close next spring, but we will know more about his schedule when we find out more about how he feels."

Colon suffered a small tear at the back of his shoulder last October, and he chose rehab over surgery but did most of his conditioning and strengthening work back in his home in the Dominican Republic. The Angels will allow Colon to return home for a visit this winter but will have him return to Arizona to begin his mound work.

"Once he starts to throw we will want to get him back in a rehab and controlled environment," Scioscia said.

Colon went 1-5 with a 5.11 ERA in 10 starts this season.

Wait and see: Casey Kotchman will also make a visit to Southern California this week, where he will be reevaluated. The first baseman has been on the disabled list since May 9 with complications from mononucleosis, but Scioscia said Kotchman has improved and is feeling about 90 percent.

Limited to 29 games this season, Kotchman was unable to sustain his strong spring, as his stamina waned over the first month. He hit .152 with one home run and six RBIs but has not participated in any baseball activities since. The club would like him to play winter ball but has yet to make any plans.

"We'll see where he is physically. We're not even at the point where we can make a decision," Scioscia said. "It depends on where he is and what kind of activity he can get up to speed on. But he has to be 100 percent. There is no sense to have him do anything until he is 100 percent."

Losing Kotchman and also Dallas McPherson to injuries this season poked a big hole in the Angels' plans at the corner of the infield, which has put question marks on both of those areas for the offseason.

Backing off: Vladimir Guerrero was again slotted as the designated hitter for Sunday's series finale against the A's, with Juan Rivera getting the start in right field. Guerrero is nursing sore knees, but the club is not considering it a permanent move for the remainder of the season, Scioscia said.

Good team: The Angels have been chasing the A's for most of the year and their divisional rival is on the doorstep of clinching its first American League West title since 2003. But aside from possibly another offensive the weapon, the Angels believe they are not that far behind.

"Their offensive resurgence has fueled their second-half run. It is not a fluke; they are a good team," Scioscia said. "By the time we found our offensive chemistry this season, we gained ground and found the momentum to win, but we have the ability and the team to play at a higher level next year."

On deck: The Angels will open their final homestand of the season with three games against the Rangers, beginning Monday at 7:05 p.m. PT, as Saunders will face Texas right-hander Edinson Volquez. Kelvim Escobar will start against the Rangers on Tuesday.






