
ANAHEIM -- It takes a certain type of pitcher to be able to fool the Yankees twice.

And after all the home runs the Yankees hit on Sunday, Joe Saunders isn't there yet.

The left-hander has been one of the reasons the Angels are even playing important games this late in the year, but with a chance to sweep the American League East leaders, the rookie couldn't deliver.

Saunders lasted 2 1/3 innings with a trio of home runs making his second go-around with the Yankees a miserable one as the Angels lost, 11-8.

After holding down the Yankees for two earned runs two weeks ago in New York, Saunders did what he's rarely done this year and tossed up some hittable pitches after falling behind in counts. The Yankees did what they do best and hit them out of the park.

"His last couple starts have been a little fuzzy with command," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said of Saunders, who fell to 4-2. "Naturally the more you see a pitcher, the more you understand what he tries to do, but it was real simple today with command with Joe."

Bernie Williams and Derek Jeter each went deep twice for the Yankees, who avoided their first three-game sweep in Anaheim since 1995.

"We got ahead in the count and made him throw the ball over the plate," Jeter said. "He's got good stuff; it's just one of those days. He may go the rest of the season without having another day like that."

This isn't the first time Saunders has had a day like Sunday. On Aug. 16 against the Rangers -- also a team he'd faced before -- he gave up seven earned runs in an eventual 9-3 loss and complained of arm fatigue after the game. There was no mention of arm troubles after the Yankees took it to the rookie, but Saunders left the clubhouse knowing exactly what needs changing in his game.

"The only adjustment I have to make is to throw more strikes," he said. "I just didn't execute pitches when I needed to."

The loss tempered what was otherwise a promising homestand. The Angels went 7-3 and kept pace behind the A's in the AL West, although they didn't gain much ground in the standings on the streaking division leaders.

"If you keep playing well, you can end up controlling that," Angels second baseman Adam Kennedy said. "Hopefully, Oakland stumbles a bit, but we have to just keep playing baseball."

The Angels have to hope that Saunders doesn't make a trend out of getting hit hard by teams he's already beaten. That's because the A's are one such team that Saunders has shut down, limiting them to two runs in seven innings on Aug. 1. Fifteen earned runs in two such starts won't help steer a club toward a playoff berth.

"There's nothing that is going to waver as far as confidence or makeup; what we want to do is control frustration," Scioscia said. "He knows what's at stake every time he goes on the mound and he knows the pennant race is here. He just needs to get back in sync."
<p.
Bad starts lead to an overtaxed bullpen, and with Scot Shields and Francisco Rodriguez working in nearly half of the Angels' games the past two weeks, the 'pen needs as much rest as it can get. Luckily for the Angels, though, their long man was able to save the rest of his relief brethren.

Kevin Gregg, pitching for the first time since he was ejected for throwing at a pair of Rangers in Saunders' last poor start, held the Yankees down for four innings. He set a career high with seven strikeouts and retired the first seven batters he faced.

"Kevin Gregg gave us a lot of good opportunities in the game to come back. He did a good job," Angels shortstop Orlando Cabrera said.

And the Angels nearly turned those opportunities into another victory. They loaded the bases with no outs in the eighth and scored three runs, two coming after Chone Figgins' grounder rolled underneath Nick Green at second. Mariano Rivera then retired the next three hitters to keep the Yankees ahead, 11-7. The Halos scored once more in the ninth on one of Kennedy's three hits, but Mike Napoli struck out to end the game.

The first of Jeter's home runs came in the opening inning and followed Johnny Damon's leadoff double. Both of Williams' homers were against Saunders, the second a three-run version that prompted Scioscia to pull his starter. Williams later added a two-run double off J.C. Romero in the seventh and Jeter went deep again in the eighth, the fourth time this season the Angels have given up four home runs.

"Against Texas I left balls up and didn't get ahead of guys. [Sunday] was the same way," said Saunders, who allowed eight earned runs. "At this level with those teams, they have too good of a lineup to do that."

Where one rookie struggled, another shined. Yankees starter Jeff Karstens took advantage of his counterpart's charity on the mound and picked up his first Major League victory.

The Angels scored three runs in six innings against Karstens (1-0) and seemed to be held down because they weren't familiar with what the rookie was throwing. Before Sunday, all the club had to work off was a lone video from Karstens' first career start last week.

"The only thing was that we haven't seen him. I didn't see anything special about him at all," Cabrera said.

With 132,663 fans over the weekend, the three-game series set an Angel Stadium record dating back to when the venue was remodeled in 1998.






