
TEMPE, Ariz. -- Nick Adenhart went to school over the winter at his home in Baltimore. There were no books, teachers or classrooms involved -- just a lot of home study.

Perched in front of his laptop, Adenhart frequented a Web site that gave him visuals and data on the greats of the game, legends such as Nolan Ryan, Roger Clemens and Greg Maddux.

He studied and probed, absorbing every detail, every nuance.












"I watched a lot of video of those guys over the course of their careers," Adenhart said. "With Maddux, for instance, they showed him throwing in high school, early in his [Major League] career, and then later. It was the same motion, same delivery. There was a consistency in everything he did.

"With Ryan and Clemens, there were similarities in their approach. You could see how they'd get their lower bodies into it, for leg drive.

"Last year, I couldn't figure it out. Seeing the way their body was working, their deliveries, movements, everything, helped me. I'd go back to it over and over, and try to see how I could apply what those guys did."

Studying the masters has clearly had an impact on the young man considered the Angels' premier pitching prospect for the past four years, since he signed out of Williamsport High School in Maryland as a 14th-round pick in the 2004 First-Year Player Draft.

Widely considered one of the nation's best prep pitchers, projected to be taken among the first five players in the Draft, his stock plunged after he submitted to Tommy John reconstructive elbow surgery two weeks before the Draft.

The Angels believed in his talent and signed him, and soon, having recovered arm strength, he began rocketing through their farm system.

After a superb 2008 spring, he didn't make the 25-man roster but was pitching effectively with Triple-A Salt Lake when he was summoned to Anaheim on May 1. He became the youngest active pitcher in the Majors when he faced the Athletics that night in Anaheim -- and his youth showed.

"My goal my whole life, since I was a little kid, was to be in the Major Leagues," Adenhart said, relaxing outside the home clubhouse at Tempe Diablo Stadium. "It all starts to internalize. Now you're here, and it's really happening.

"You want it to be perfect. There's so much going on. I didn't feel incredibly nervous or anything like that. It was just kind of sensory overload. It's almost like a numb feeling.

"I lost my command and couldn't make adjustments. It was frustrating, very frustrating."

Adenhart's debut was close to disastrous. He was about as far from perfect as he'd ever been, lasting just two innings and yielding five earned runs on five walks and three hits. He did not strike out a hitter.

Suddenly, predictably the fast-food generation of sports fans was wondering what happened to the so-called phenom.

Adenhart made two more starts, and they were better, but not significantly so. Returning to Salt Lake, he carried the weight of a 9.00 big league ERA, having surrendered 18 hits and 13 walks in 12 innings, with four strikeouts.

"We'd changed my delivery right when Spring Training was ending to simplify my timing," Adenhart said. "I always had my hands over my head, and I brought them down and stayed in front.

"I went to Salt Lake and did not feel good pitching, even though I was winning games because our team was so good. My strikeouts and walks weren't where they should have been.

"In July, I made the switch back to my old delivery, and my command picked up. I started feeling better on the mound, more comfortable. By the last month, I was getting back to where I wanted to be."

He finished 9-13 with a 5.76 ERA in 26 starts at Salt Lake, but what seemingly was forgotten was that it was only his third full professional season. He'll be 23 on Aug. 24.

His struggles, he now feels, have made him a better, smarter pitcher and a more mature person. He insists he won't overreact any more to rough outings or bad breaks -- and that showed on Monday in Scottsdale against the Giants when a foul ball was ruled fair, costing him two earned runs that lifted his ERA to 5.40.

He's in contention for a vacancy in the rotation, but, realistically, he knows veterans Dustin Moseley and Shane Loux have more experience and are out of options, while Adenhart does have options left and can be returned to Salt Lake without being snapped up by another club.

What's more, both Moseley and Loux have enjoyed excellent springs. Certainly Adenhart understands he's far from a finished product, that he's just scratching the surface of what he can do.

"I feel better now than I ever have, command-wise," Adenhart said. "I got into some bad habits in '07 that eventually caught up with me. That's why watching all that video of Maddux, Ryan and Clemens was so valuable to me.

"I've been studying pitching seriously since I was 9, 10 years old. My stepdad [Duane Gigeous] started working with me, breaking it all down. We read books by Tom Seaver, Tom House, and we kind of developed our own pitching theories.

"This is what I've always wanted to do. I want to pitch in the Major Leagues."

The Angels are convinced he will make it happen, and that Adenhart has the right stuff to be a big winner for years to come.

"Nick's a young guy with a lot of talent," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "We think he has a great future."

Giants manager Bruce Bochy, who watches National League Cy Young Award winner Tim Lincecum operate every fifth day, is an Adenhart fan.

"Nice, smooth delivery, good stuff," Bochy said when asked to evaluate the young Angels right-hander. "That's impressive. I like him a lot."






