
SEATTLE -- The balancing act continues for Angels manager Mike Scioscia, who is trying to win enough games to nail down the benefits of the American League's best regular-season record while keeping his athletes healthy and finely tuned for the business of October.

While he maintains that he doesn't pay attention to standings, Scioscia surely is keenly aware of where his team stands in relation to the Tampa Bay Rays and Boston Red Sox, whose play across the final week will determine who wins the AL East and who comes to Anaheim to face the Angels as the Wild Card on Oct. 1 or Oct. 2.

By finishing with a better record than the Red Sox and Rays, the Angels are guaranteed home-field advantage for the American League Championship Series -- a significant prize, given how well both those teams play in their home yards.

As a result, Scioscia's concerns in this four-game series with the last-place Mariners are twofold: winning games and staying healthy.

With Joe Saunders getting some extra time off because of a kidney stone issue, Dustin Moseley will start either Wednesday or Thursday night. If Moseley pitches Wednesday, Jon Garland will have an extra day of rest.

John Lackey, Ervin Santana and Saunders are expected to pitch the final home series against the Rangers, tuning up for AL Division Series starts in that order.

Again, Scioscia figures to have the difficult task of balancing the need for wins -- with respect to best record and home-field advantage -- and the desire to keep his three starters fresh and primed for the ALDS.

There's also the matter of the batting order, and where second baseman Howie Kendrick fits in if he's able to get enough at-bats in the final week to be ready for the ALDS.

Kendrick played three innings on Monday night and got two at-bats, grounding crisply to shortstop on both occasions, the second resulting in a double play. Garret Anderson has been pounding the ball at a .403 clip in the No. 2 spot, and he's expected to be back in that role on Tuesday night with Kendrick taking a night off before returning on Wednesday.

"Right now, if we started the playoffs tomorrow, Garret would be in the No. 2 hole," Scioscia said. "Howie hasn't had a chance to get at-bats. We can look at it this week and make a judgment. We'll get a better read on where we stand at the end of the week."

That applies to a lot of things besides the No. 2 spot in the batting order, with the Red Sox and Rays having a say in how hard the Angels go after happy endings over the final six games.

Pitching matchup
LAA: RHP Jered Weaver (11-10, 4.16 ERA)
Weaver, pitching for postseason-starting consideration, delivered one of his most impressive efforts of the year on Wednesday night in Oakland. He struck out eight and walked three (one intentionally) while yielding six hits and one earned run in six innings. The right-hander showed his competitive nature when he left the bases loaded by striking out Jack Cust and Kurt Suzuki. With 12 days of rest before his previous start, Weaver said it was the best he's felt all year in terms of stuff and command. He's 2-1 with a 4.58 ERA in three outings against the Mariners this season and 6-2 with a 4.65 ERA in 10 career starts. Weaver is 3-2 with a 5.30 ERA in six starts at Safeco Field.

SEA: LHP Ryan Feierabend (1-4, 7.25 ERA)
His last start notwithstanding, the rookie left-hander has done a solid job since he's been in the rotation. Feierabend doesn't have overpowering stuff, as evidenced by the .349 opponents' batting average, but has shown a knack for moving the ball around, challenging hitters inside and throwing strikes. A reliever early in the season, he could become a swingman in the future.

Tidbits
Vladimir Guerrero, who homered on Monday night, joined Alex Rodriguez as the only active players with 11 consecutive seasons of 25 or more homers. If he finishes at .300 or better, Guerrero joins Lou Gehrig as the only players to combine that with 25 or more homers 11 straight seasons. Gehrig did it from 1927-37. ... Erick Aybar, back in the swing of things after hitting .400 in 15 at-bats in Texas, leads the Angels with 22 infield hits and five triples. The shortstop is batting .329 with runners in scoring position. ... Gary Matthews Jr. is batting .333 over his past 69 at-bats. ... Mike Napoli took Monday night off after a torrid 7-for-14 with two homers in Texas. His 18 homers have come in only 212 at-bats, one of the best ratios in the Majors.

Tickets
 Buy tickets now to catch the game in person.

On the Internet
 MLB.TV
 Gameday Audio
&#149;  Gameday
&#149;  Official game notes

On television
&#149; FSN

On radio
&#149; KLAA 830, KWKW 1330 (Espa&ntilde;ol)

Up next
&#149; Wednesday: Angels (Jon Garland, 14-8, 4.79) at Mariners (Felix Hernandez, 9-11, 3.37), 7:10 p.m. PT 
&#149; Thursday: Angels (TBD) at Mariners (Carlos Silva, 4-15, 6.46), 7:10 p.m. PT 
&#149; Friday: Angels (John Lackey, 12-4, 3.25) vs. Rangers (Vicente Padilla, 13-8, 4.85), 7:05 p.m. PT 






