
ANAHEIM -- Jarrod Washburn struggled to find his command Wednesday night and by the time he found his groove in the middle innings it was too late.

By then the White Sox had put four on the board against the left-hander and with the offense still in search of its collective stroke; and an absent Vladimir Guerrero in the middle of the lineup, anything but zeroes from the pitching staff presents a nearly insurmountable challenge.

That was the case again Wednesday when the Angels' only meaningful rally was a two-out single by Chone Figgins in the eighth followed by Darin Erstad's RBI double that provided the game's final margin, a 4-2 loss.

The Angels also brought the tying runs to the plate in the ninth, but pinch-hitters Bengie Molina and Curtis Pride lifted fly balls to the outfield, and though that elicited brief excitement from the crowd, the warning track drives merely punctuated an offense that is struggling to produce.

Now, the Angels must rally in the series finale on Thursday to gain a split with the White Sox and prove they belong in the same class as the team with the Major League's best record of 33-14. Combined with Texas' 7-3 win over the Royals, the Angels now share the American League West lead for the first time since April 22.

"Our heads are above water right now, but at some point we need to put pressure on other teams," manager Mike Scioscia said.

For the second straight night, a White Sox starting pitcher held sway over the Angels. On Tuesday it was Mark Buehrle, who outdueled Bartolo Colon. Freddy Garcia did not shoulder the same burden on Wednesday as he was given a three-run lead before he even threw a pitch thanks to a three-run homer by Paul Konerko, but he was equally effective.

Garcia (5-3) allowed two runs on seven hits over eight innings. The big right-hander also struck out six and did not walk a batter to pick up the win.

"So far in this series they've outpitched us twice and we've outpitched them once," Washburn said. "We've got to come out tomorrow and even this series up."

Washburn (3-3) has tossed four scoreless outings this season, but in each subsequent start he allowed at least five runs. On Wednesday it was four runs over 6 2/3 innings as his fastball command eluded him in the first couple of frames.

"Early on my command was terrible, but just my fastball," Washburn said, who took the loss. "I threw a couple of fastballs that were not where I wanted them. From about the second inning on, I started throwing offspeed pitches and I relied on that. Later my fastball came back."

Washburn left a fastball up to Konerko in the first; and then in the second, backup catcher Chris Widger drilled a mistake to left for his second home run of the year.

"It started to click later and I was able to shut them down, but by then it was too late," Washburn said.

The Angels got their first baserunner in the third when Jose Molina led off the inning with a single. After he was erased on a fielder's choice off the bat of Orlando Cabrera, Adam Kennedy put the Angels on the board with an RBI double to left-center.

But the Angels would not put another runner in scoring position until the seventh, when Dallas McPherson was stranded at third after a two-out triple. The Halos' two abbreviated rallies in the eighth and ninth innings produced just a run.

Washburn believes it is only a matter of time before the offense breaks out of their slump.

"Every day we come out here and expect to bust out of it," Washburn said. "One of these days we're going to come out here and start scoring runs and it isn't going to stop."

Until then he's going to do his part to hold down the opposition.

"I try to go out every day and throw a shutout. Obviously I don't do that every time out, but that is my goal," Washburn said. "My job is to get hitters out whether we're swinging the bats well or not."

One bright spot is the Angels may have found another reliable arm in the bullpen.

That would be Joel Peralta, who made his Major League debut and hung up zeros over his 2 1/3 innings in relief of Washburn.

With closer Francisco Rodriguez on the disabled list with a sore right forearm and Scot Shields and Brendan Donnelly having already logged 47 2/3 innings between them, finding another reliable reliever would be a big plus.

Shields has allowed just three earned runs in 21 relief appearances while Rodriguez has converted 10 of 11 save opportunities. After some early season struggles when he allowed five runs in his first four appearances, Donnelly has settled down to allow one run over his last 13 appearances. With Esteban Yan posting a 7.04 ERA in May and Jake Woods handling primarily left-handers, Peralta can help eat up innings.

"We're always looking for some arms for depth," Scioscia said. "Peralta had been kicking around the minors for a while. He's been pitching well."








