
Why is Riley Breckenridge prone to minor fits of depression these days?

Well, it's certainly not because of how things are going with his band, Thrice. The punk-pop-rock quartet, which has sold well over 1 million records, had their last album debut in the Billboard Top 20, and their latest collection of themed EPs, The Alchemy Index, has further enhanced their reputation as one of the premier post-hardcore acts in music today.

It's because his beloved Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim made a first-round exit from Major League Baseball's postseason -- this in a year in which the team compiled the best record in the game (100-62) and convinced their fans that they'd be tasting World Series champagne for the first time since 2002.

"I thought all the cards were lined up, with the pitching doing great, grabbing (Mark) Teixeira at the deadline ... it seemed like the offense was clicking," says Breckenridge, who plays drums for the Orange County, Calif.-based band. "I don't know what it is, but we just can't seem to get out of the first round anymore."

When Breckenridge talks baseball, he speaks with the authority of a man who's accomplished quite a bit in the game himself.

He started playing tee ball at the age of 5, graduated to Little League, manned second base, shortstop and third for University High School In Irvine, played summer ball, Conne Mack, and then tore up his knee, needed surgery, and missed half of his senior season.

But Breckenridge didn't give up on his diamond dreams just yet.

"I ended up walking on at Pepperdine as a freshman in 1994," he says. "I redshirted that year, and (Major League reliever) Matt Wise was in that freshman class with me. Sophomore year, (big-league starter) Randy Wolf came in. It was unbelievable, the amount of talent there. (Big-league utility man) David Newhan, a guy who played for the Cardinals named Keith McDonald.

"Needless to say, I didn't get to play very much, but baseball was my passion growing up, and even though I wasn't playing, just being in that atmosphere was incredible. And the truth of the matter is that I didn't have any business playing anyway. I definitely wanted to, but every guy on that college team was as good or better than the best guys on my high school team."

After transferring from Pepperdine to Golden West Junior College and then Long Beach State in a search for more playing time, Breckenridge finally made a decision.

"It kind of dawned on me that being 5-foot-9 and having a surgically repaired knee and not being out-of-this-world talented, the cards were stacked against me," he says. "I was better off getting a degree and focusing my time on music."

It's a good thing for Thrice fans that he came to that realization.

The group, which also consists of guitarist/vocalist Dustin Kensrue, guitarist Teppei Teranishi, and Riley's brother, bassist Eddie Breckenridge, is touring all over America right now with Rise Against.

And during baseball season, when they're not on the road, you just might find them in the seats at Angel Stadium.

"One of my earliest memories is being at Yankee Stadium with my parents," Riley says. "I definitely remember visiting my grandparents in New York and being there and watching the Angels vs. the Yankees in 1977.

"Growing up, my dad would prop me up in front of the TV and watch Angels games. Then he'd go throw me BP in the yard."

Riley's love for baseball and music came to sweet fruition while he was in attendance at an Angels game in 2005. He was sitting in his seat during the pre-game introductions when he heard his own band over the PA.

"We did a cover of 'Send Me An Angel,' for a compilation CD for a local record label, and all of a sudden I hear it at the stadium," he says. "That was unreal."

And so the Angels' magical season of 2002, which Riley and his father both say they'll never forget.

"It seemingly came out of nowhere and was just amazing the whole way through," he says.

"I'm sort of a baseball pessimist, so I'm not really sure if it's ever going to happen again. But I hope that it does."







