
ANAHEIM -- Thursday was Quakes Night at Angel Stadium, and the Angels' top prospects from Class A Rancho Cucamonga were on hand.

The biggest name in the bunch was 2004 first-round draft pick Jered Weaver, but the Angels are also very high on second baseman Howie Kendrick, shortstop Brandon Wood and starter Rafael Rodriguez.

Weaver, a 22-year-old right-hander who dazzled at Long Beach State by going 15-1 with a 1.62 ERA and 213 strikeouts his junior year, didn't allow an earned run in five innings in his last start. He's 1-1 with a 6.28 ERA in four starts for the Quakes, but that's not what's important to him right now. After all, he was idle for over a year between the end of his college career and his first professional appearance with the Angels.

"Not a lot of people have had 400 days off," Weaver said. "I was a little weak when I first came back, but now that I've had more outings, more repetition, I feel good."

When Weaver was still at Long Beach State, his agent asserted that the 6-foot-7 brother of Dodgers starter Jeff Weaver was ready for the Major Leagues immediately. While admitting it will take some time to get his body back into top form, Weaver believes that he could handle any challenge presented to him.

"Yeah, absolutely. Why wouldn't I?" he said. "Just give me a little time ... and I'll be all right."

Despite his confidence, Weaver said he would accept whatever pace at which the Angels choose to move him along.

"They say you're supposed to master each level, so we'll see how long it'll take me to master this one," he said. "It's up to the Angels."

Another man who probably has a promotion on his mind -- although he'd never admit it -- is Kendrick, who was batting .376 through Thursday with 20 doubles, 10 homers and 13 steals in 55 games.

"I'm just seeing the ball real well and hitting a lot of good pitches," Kendrick said. "All I can do is play. I'm not gonna worry about who's ahead of me, who's behind me."

Kendrick's biggest improvement this year isn't with the stick, though -- he could always hit. Fielding was a different subject entirely when he entered pro ball.

"I've never really been very good defensively, and that's what I'm trying to focus on this year," Kendrick said. "I never had anyone to teach me the right way to do things defensively."

Since entering the Angels organization, though, Kendrick says he's been "learning the fundamentals." He's committed 16 errors, but young Minor League infielders often commit 20, 30 or more errors in a season. Angels manager Mike Scioscia said earlier in the week that Kendrick had improved his defense from last season to this season more than any other player in the organization.

Despite Kendrick's tremendous offensive numbers, though, his double-play partner hasn't been overshadowed one bit. Wood leads all Minor Leaguers with 28 home runs in 81 games played.

Wood, who's only 20 years old, also has 28 doubles on the season, racking up 71 RBIs, 62 runs scored and five steals while committing a respectable 12 errors at shortstop

"This year, I think my swing came together a little bit, I matured a little bit as a hitter," Wood said. "I just feel comfortable at the plate. If you're comfortable and confident, you can have the worst swing in the world and you're gonna do alright."

At 6-foot-3 and 200 pounds, Wood is very big for a shortstop, but he hopes to remain at the position as he advances up the organizational ladder. One thing's for sure -- Wood doesn't hit like a shortstop.

"Sometimes it's funny," Kendrick said. "He's a really good inside-pitch hitter. A lot of pitchers try to challenge him with the inside fastball and he doesn't miss."

Rodriguez, 20, knows a thing or two about the inside fastball. He was 5-2 with a 2.78 ERA in 13 starts for Cedar Rapids, a lower-level Class A affiliate of the Angels, before being promoted to the Quakes in June.

"I pitch calm, I keep the ball down, every pitch I make a quality pitch," Rodriguez said. "Minor Leagues, Major Leagues, you have to pitch [the same way]. Keep the ball down and have good location."

While with Cedar Rapids, Rodriguez struck out 74 in 74 1/3 innings, while walking only 27 and yielding just five home runs. With Rancho Cucamonga, he's struggled a bit, posting a 7.02 ERA, but he's won all three of his starts.

While Weaver, Wood, Kendrick and Rodriguez might have to worry about when a spot will open up for them to be promoted in the Angels' stocked farm system, none of them needs to worry about switching allegiances any time soon. Angels general manager Bill Stoneman has said he's not interested in trading away his top prospects at the deadline this season.

And, with the way the Angels Major and Minor Leaguers have been playing, why would he want to?








