
ANAHEIM -- With his team as far out of first place as they have been all year, Angels manager Mike Scioscia demanded that they get a new attitude.

After Friday's 6-1 loss to the Dodgers, Scioscia told his players that they need to play games with the expectation that they will win.

Players clearly tuned in.

"We have to start thinking that we can win every day," shortstop Orlando Cabrera said. "We're not that far back. It can happen in a couple of weeks."

The Angels have had their share of injuries this year, as well as countless offensive slumps, and Scioscia noticed that some of his players have become tentative.

"You've got to get out there, and let it ride and play aggressively," he said. "You need to think about making plays and not worrying about mistakes."

A lack of offensive production has been at the forefront of the team's struggles, with sluggers Vladimir Guerrero and Garret Anderson mired in droughts. Only Cabrera at .302 and rookie catcher Mike Napoli at .301 were hitting above .300 entering Saturday.

The Angels rank near the bottom of the American League in categories that Scioscia considers essential. The Halos entered Saturday last in slugging percentage (.395), second-to-last in on-base percentage (.316) and 12th in hitting with runners in scoring position (.250).

"We need to pick it up, particularly the number of runners in scoring position and hitting with runners in scoring position," he said. "That's the way our offense has to go.  We're not going to just start miraculously driving the ball."

With the team struggling at the plate, it has put added pressure on the pitching staff and the defense behind it.  That defense has particularly been affected, with the team having already allowed 13 more unearned runs than it did all of last season.




Complete coverage &gt;

"It's just painfully apparent that the lack of offense has affected the other parts of our club that are important," Scioscia said.

Bittersweet return: Rookie Jered Weaver returned to the Angels' clubhouse Saturday, a day after he was promoted from Triple-A to take his older brother's spot in the rotation.

Jered Weaver said he spoke to Jeff for about a half-hour on Friday and the two left the conversation with no hard feelings.

"There's no bad blood, I got a lot of love for him," Jered said. "It's been baseball that's bonded us close together, and we're not going to let baseball take it away from us."

The starter, who is 4-0 with a 1.37 ERA in the Majors, was excited to get an assured spot in the Angels rotation, but said his emotions were bittersweet.

"It's a very business-oriented game and I realize that," he said. "I'm glad to be back, I just wish it was under different circumstances."

Jered Weaver didn't arrive Friday because the Angels had trouble contacting him about the roster move. When the club tried to call him, he was traveling with the Salt Lake team to Sacramento and doing exactly what many in their early 20s do -- taking a nap.

Slump-buster: Over his last two games, Guerrero has five hits in his last eight at-bats, a performance that has pulled him out of a .133 (6-for-45) skid.

His .293 average entering Saturday remains the lowest it's ever been heading into July, and Guerrero hasn't hit a home run since June 15.

The past few days have reassured the Angels that their slugger is starting to feel comfortable at the plate again -- though the team knows they need more than just Guerrero to climb the standings.

"We need Vlad in there, but we need more than Vladdy," Scioscia said. "We can't say, 'OK, Vlad's swinging the bat better, we can just sit back.' Obviously, it's going to take more than that to get the ball rolling."

Aside from Guerrero, a player who is crucial for the club's success is Anderson, who hit .224 in June while battling foot and back issues.

"What we need from Garret is production, bottom line," Scioscia said.

Second best: The Angels' loss to the Dodgers on Friday assured them of dropping the Freeway Series for the first time since 1999. The Halos still have the advantage over their rival in all-time meetings with a 28-26 record.

On the farm: Left fielder Aaron Peel powered Double-A Arkansas' 14-7 win over Tulsa with a 4-for-5 performance, including two doubles and five RBIs. ... Starter Robert Mosebach improved to 5-4 and pitched his second complete game of the season in Class A Cedar Rapid's 8-4 victory against Dayton. Mosebach allowed four runs and nine hits while striking out seven. ... Center fielder Peter Bourjos went 4-for-6 in Rookie League Orem's 5-4 win versus Ogden.  Bourjos won the game in the 13th inning with an RBI single.

On deck: In the finale of the Freeway Series, Angels right-hander John Lackey (5-5, 3.31) will take on Dodgers rookie Chad Billingsley (0-1, 5.62) at 12:35 p.m. PT.






