
TEMPE, Ariz. -- Gary Matthews Jr. has a game built on speed, featuring quick, explosive bursts in the outfield and on the bases.

For a season and a half, a wobbly wheel has stripped him of qualities that separated him from the pack, reducing him to something less than the player he feels he is on two sound, functional legs.











"I've learned how to play with pain, and I've learned how to play with frustration," Matthews said as he arrived at Angels camp on Monday in good spirits, left patella tendon surgery on Oct. 28 having repaired the wobbly wheel.

"Doing that will make me a better player. Everybody has their trials and tribulations. It's not fun when you're going through it, but I truly believe it builds character, and I'll be better for it."

Shortly after his arrival, Matthews went to work on the field, running alongside Torii Hunter in the outfield, hitting and throwing.

"I can do everything but explosive stuff," he said.

He isn't ready to cut loose yet, but Matthews maintains he's "way ahead of schedule" in his recovery from the surgery, thanks to a diligent offseason program that included two-a-day training sessions along with throwing three days per week with teammate Justin Speier.

"I usually take a vacation during the offseason, but not this winter," Matthews said. "I went to Chicago for Christmas to visit my father [former Major League star Gary Matthews], but that was it.

"Twelve days after surgery, in early November, I started the two-a-days, five days a week. It came pretty quick after the swelling from surgery went away. Dr. [Lewis] Yocum did a great job, and Dr. Joan [Boesel] at the Sports Medicine Institute in Anaheim has been a wonderful physical therapist. I wasn't supposed to start running until we got here, but I've been running for a month.

"I'd have a rehab workout in the morning for more than two hours, have lunch and rest, and then work out with my trainer in the afternoon. On Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, I'd throw with Justin. There are definitely things I'd rather be doing during the offseason, but I'm glad I went through this."

Matthews initially injured the knee climbing a wall in pursuit of Ken Griffey Jr.'s home run in Cincinnati on June 14, 2007. It happened in the sixth inning, and Matthews -- batting .282 at the time and hitting cleanup -- finished the game in pain.

The knee bothered him for the balance of his first season with the Angels and continued to give him troubles last season.

Keenly aware of the microscope he was under after signing a five-year, $50 million contract with the Angels after the 2006 season, when he'd been an All-Star for the Texas Rangers, he tried to contribute in a diminished condition.

Moving from leading off to cleaning up and playing superb center field at the time of the injury, Matthews fell to .242 last season, appearing in 127 games as a fourth outfielder and designated hitter.

"When it gets back to 100 percent, it's going to be a clean slate," he said. "I'm excited about being healthy. It wasn't a whole lot of fun trying to do it not being healthy.

"As a player, you're taught you can accomplish things through hard work and perseverance. When you're hurt, it doesn't work out that way."

Angels manager Mike Scioscia cautioned that the club would monitor Matthews closely, that the 34-year-old outfielder would not rush anything.

The initial prognosis had Matthews returning when the season was well underway. Once again deep in outfielders, with Bobby Abreu joining Hunter, Vladimir Guerrero, Juan Rivera, Reggie Willits and Matthews, there is no need for Matthews to overextend himself.

"We're aware of where Gary is," Scioscia said. "In some aspects, he's feeling good. There's still a time element in letting that tissue heal. There are a lot of hurdles, a progression in what he can do. With the nature of his injury, if that [tendon] ruptures, he's gone for a long time."

With Hunter and his eight consecutive Gold Gloves entrenched in center field, Matthews was the swing man in '08, making 36 starts in left, 23 in center and 36 in right, while serving as DH 13 times.

Given the talent level and depth in the outfield, Matthews realizes the likelihood of claiming a regular job isn't great as he drops a notch on the depth chart.

Growing up inside the game at the feet of a Major League player, "Sarge Junior," as Reds manager Dusty Baker calls him, Matthews also understands that center fielders with his skills are always in demand -- and that if he proves he is back at full strength, he should have appeal in the trade market.

"Obviously, I want to play," he said. "I've always considered myself a center fielder, but Torii's a great player and he had a tremendous season for us. We'll just have to see how it all works out.

"Right now, I'm just excited with getting back to where I was before I injured the knee, to being a whole player again. That's all I can control right now.

"When I'm healthy, we've seen what I can do. We've also seen what I can do when I'm not healthy."

The gap is significant. He feels he's ready to close it with the same grace he uses to run down drives to the gaps on two healthy wheels.






