
ANAHEIM -- The Angels are built around pitching and if they make a run at the division, a majority of the load will fall on the rotation and the back end of the bullpen.

Despite having two rookies in the rotation down the stretch in Jered Weaver and Joe Saunders and a third pitcher that is in his first full season in Ervin Santana, the Angels will not look to shuffle the starters.

Weaver made his 15th start of the season for the Angels and 27th appearance overall counting his 12 outings with Triple-A Salt Lake. Santana has made 28 starts this year and is 22 innings shy of reaching his total from last season, while Saunders has already eclipsed his career high for innings in a season.

While there have been signs of fatigue over the last few starts, manager Mike Scioscia feels that three off days over the season's final four weeks should solve any issues that might arise, barring injury.

"We need the five guys to continue to pitch well. It doesn't matter who they're pitching against. We need them to pitch well," Scioscia said. "You don't want to juggle the whole rotation, and I don't think that is going to help us in that many situations."

A year ago, the Angels had Bartolo Colon in the rotation and adjusted it to maximize his starts. Colon is out until next year with a tear of his right rotator cuff, but the club can still boast one of the best rotations with a 4.19 ERA, which is second in the American League.

"You never want to lose a Cy Young winner, but the rookies have done well. All of them have," Jose Molina said. "They know their roles, and they're ready to play."

Short rows: The Angels went 3-3 on the recent road trip, grabbing the last two games in Detroit to break even. Over the same stretch, the A's went 5-1 but cooled a bit by dropping an 8-1 decision to the Rangers on Monday.

Entering Monday's series opener with the Orioles, the Angels have 25 games left with 14 of those within the division and 10 against Oakland. The club will not look to do anything extraordinary to close the gap.

"Just the same old formula that has always worked -- pitch good, hit well and play good defense," said Darin Erstad, who has returned to the club to back up first base.

The Angels are 15-10 in their last 25 games, a pace that projects to an 87-75 mark if they close out the final stretch five games over the .500 mark. But the A's went 20-5 prior to Monday's loss, which means the Angels will have to pick up the pace to alter the race.

"If we play well, we can still win this division, and that is where our focus has to be," Scioscia said.

No word: Brendan Donnelly is patiently waiting on the status of his appeal. The right-handed reliever was suspended four games for throwing at a batter during a game in Texas last month but has yet to be given a date by the league office to hear his case. Donnelly said two dates have been floated: Sept. 15, when the club is in Texas, and Sept. 25, when the Rangers visit Anaheim.

Numbers: The Angels lead the American League with 108 errors entering Monday and have posted a 36-36 record in games when they committed an error. They had 87 all of last season, the fewest in the AL. ... The club also leads the league with 78 unearned runs after allowing just 45 last season and has tossed the most wild pitches, 75.

Programming note: To accommodate USC football, three upcoming Saturday radio broadcasts will be heard on KMXE 830 AM and not KSPN 710 AM: Sept. 16 at Texas, Sept. 23 at Oakland and Sept. 30 vs. Oakland. Spanish radio broadcasts will not air on those dates but Spanish coverage will be available on KCOP's televised broadcasts.

On the farm: Dallas McPherson went 2-for-5 with a solo homer and four RBIs in Salt Lake's 8-6 win over Portland on Sunday. Right-hander Matt Hensley tossed two scoreless innings of relief. ... Rookie league Orem right-hander Sean O'Sullivan and outfielder Chris Pettit were both named to the Pioneer League All-Star team, while Tom Kotchman earned co-Manager of the Year honors along with Billings skipper Rick Burleson.

On deck: The Angels will continue their three-game series against the Orioles at Angel Stadium on Tuesday at 7:05 p.m. PT with right-hander John Lackey set to face Baltimore right-hander Kris Benson. Ervin Santana will start against the Orioles on Wednesday.






