
The following is the fifth in a series of weekly stories on MLB.com examining each Major League club, position by position. Each Wednesday until Spring Training camps open, we'll preview a different position. Today: Rotation.

ANAHEIM -- Chicks may dig the long ball, but the Angels believe winning means keeping the ball in the yard.

While offense was a stated need, the club mostly held firm in the offseason. One obstacle to getting a big bat this offseason was a staff the Angels say not only provides the straightest course to another division title, but one that also attracted considerable attention.

For every offer of possible offensive help this winter came with the request of a pitcher, either starter or reliever, in return, and the Angels politely refused.

"Pitching gives us options," general manager Bill Stoneman said. "We believe good pitching will beat good hitting and that is how we design our club. You go through cycles where your strengths may lie in one area and fortunately, we have talented pitching."

With the first workout for pitchers and catchers just two weeks out, the Angels' likely starting rotation will be the same as the one that finished the 2006 season with four right-handers and one left-hander.

Veterans John Lackey and Kelvim Escobar will head the list with young right-handers Ervin Santana and Jered Weaver joining the group. Barring a development this spring, Joe Saunders will be the lone lefty.

One prominent name remains and he is a considerable wild card.

Bartolo Colon was the American League's best pitcher in 2005, but shoulder problems have prevented the 33-year-old from logging a full season of innings since. As he did last winter, Colon has been rehabbing from injury, and reports continue to be positive.

Colon is currently in the first stages of his throwing program, progressing from short toss to long toss. While he has improved, Stoneman said Colon will not be at the same point physically as the other pitchers when they begin workouts on Feb. 15.

A year ago, Colon was in camp a short while after rehabbing from the shoulder injury he suffered in the 2005 Division Series playoff against the Yankees. He then pitched for the Dominican Republic in the World Baseball Classic in March and posted a 1-0 mark with a 0.64 ERA.

For the Angels last season, Colon was 1-5 with a 5.11 ERA over 10 starts while making two trips to the disabled list. Neither the club nor Colon has blamed the Classic for the partial tear in his rotator cuff, but his progress to his first start for the Angels this season will be deliberate.

"He'll be ready when he's ready; it is absolutely foolish to put a timetable on it," Stoneman said. "You don't rush biology. People mend at different rates."

Looking at a starting staff that was second in the AL behind the Tigers with a 4.16 ERA, though, and the Angels are still confident with their rotation.

"Even if Bart is not available and he's not able to pitch right away, we have a quality pitcher to run out there every night," Stoneman said. "You're in a good position right from the start of the game."

Lackey posted his third straight winning season with a 13-11 record and a 3.56 ERA, his second year in a row with a sub-4.00 ERA. He also eclipsed the 200-inning plateau for the second straight year and again was third among AL leaders in strikeouts with 190.

While he struggled some in August, Lackey was dominant in July and never more than July 7 when he allowed a leadoff double to Mark Kotsay and then retired 27 A's in a row en route to a 3-0 shutout in Oakland.

Escobar went 11-14 with a 3.61 ERA in 30 starts with the Angels last season. After missing a sizable chunk of 2005 with elbow problems that resulted in surgery to remove bone chips, Escobar was mostly healthy in 2006 with one brief stint on the DL in July for inflammation in the same right elbow.

His results were mixed, but he also fell victim to support. His ERA was the lowest in the AL by a pitcher with a losing record, in part due to a Major League leading 17 unearned runs in his starts. The Angels also scored three or fewer runs in 11 of his 14 losses.

A great amount of attention has been focused on the Angels' young pitchers with Santana, Weaver and Saunders being largely responsible.





Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim


&bull; Catchers: Halos solid behind plate
&bull; Corner IF: Fierce competition on tap
&bull; Middle IF: Kendrick joins Cabrera
&bull; Outfielders: Matthews in the middle
&bull; Starters: Solid five, plus Colon
&bull; Bullpen: Could be even stronger
&bull; DH/Bench: Hillenbrand provides options





Santana posted a 16-8 record with a 4.28 ERA to lead the club in wins in his first full big-league season. He was second among AL starters by limiting the opposition to a .241 batting average and was third in home ERA with a 3.02 mark.

The latter stat also reflected a curious trend for Santana. He was 10-2 at Angel Stadium last season and is 19-5 there in 31 starts, compared to a 6-6 mark on the road in 2006 and a 9-11 record in 25 road starts.

Observers within the organization prefer to dismiss it as an anomaly and focus on the qualities Santana brings to the mound.

"What I really like about him [is that] he is competitive, and that can take you a long way, but he also has a great arm," Stoneman said. "He has a great future. He absorbs innings and I think he's going to have a terrific career."

The Angels' first pick in the 2004 draft, Weaver missed nearly an entire year of baseball before signing in late-May 2005. The rust was evident, but Weaver was sharp last spring and could have earned a spot in the Angels' rotation but instead opened the year at Triple-A Salt Lake.

He got his Major League debut on May 27, earning the win in a 10-1 victory over the Orioles and proceeded to win his first seven starts. Weaver ran his record to 9-0 before taking his first loss on Aug. 24 against the Red Sox. He finished the season 11-2 with a 2.56 ERA with 105 strikeouts and 33 walks over a 123 innings.

"This guy has the upside to be a dominant pitcher, a guy that can be a lead horse in a championship-caliber rotation and be in an elite group of Major League pitchers," manager Mike Scioscia said. "That's only going to happen with the day-to-day focus, the start-to start focus that a young pitcher needs. He's committed to the grind. He understands the work it's going to take."

Saunders, the team's first pick in 2002, also proved he's ready for the big leagues with a 7-3 mark last season after going 10-4 at Salt Lake. He won his first four starts and also showed he could handle the workload by pitching a total of 205 1/3 innings.

One downside could be depth. Dustin Moseley, who went 1-0 in three games for the Angels last season, will head the list in Salt Lake, with Chris Bootcheck possibly returning to the Bees' rotation after pitching mostly out of the bullpen last year. Other possibilities include right-hander Kasey Olenberger, who went 7-5 at Salt Lake last season, and newcomers Phil Seibel and Chris Resop.

Right-hander Nick Green went 8-5 at Double-A Arkansas last year and likely will jump to Triple-A, while the Angels will continue to groom Nick Adenhart, who went 15-4 at Single-A last season, as a future starter.






