
ST. PETERSBURG -- With the Angels and the A's race in the American League West as tight as it is, Halos starter Paul Byrd said he wanted a good start on Saturday against what has been a potent Tampa Bay offense.

That didn't happen.

Once again, the Angels couldn't overcome an early deficit as Tampa Bay won, 6-3, in front of 12,445 at Tropicana Field for the second day in a row, handing the first-place Angels their third straight loss and closing their lead over the A's to a half-game.

"I needed to go out there and give us a good start," Byrd said. "It was just bad timing. I shoulder the loss."

Of the 11 hits Byrd gave up before his departure, three were especially damaging. The first one was an 0-2 pitch to Jorge Cantu that left the ballpark for Cantu's 22nd of the year, giving the Rays a 2-1 lead in the third. Later in the inning, Jonny Gomes hit a two-run triple of the wall in left-center. Rays catcher Pete Laforest hit his first Major League home run in the sixth, a two-run shot off Byrd that put the Rays up, 6-1.

"I thought they were hot and I could have done a better job," Byrd said of the Rays, who put up a dozen in a 12-8 win over the Angels on Friday night. "I threw too many breaking balls and it cost me."

Byrd (9-9) hasn't won a game in seven starts. His last win came against Minnesota in the middle of July. The right-hander gave up six runs on 11 hits in six innings, while walking one and striking out one.

"Paul made some mistakes," manager Mike Scioscia said. "He missed some spots there and those guys didn't miss it. A little of the frustrating part was that it wasn't like he made a lot of mistakes, but the ones he made weren't very forgiving."

The Angels' offense was limited to a home run by Casey Kotchman in the second inning and a pair of runs in the eighth inning, when Chone Figgins tripled in Adam Kennedy and scored on a sac fly by Orlando Cabrera.

Vladimir Guerrero, who needs just one homer to reach 300 for his career, was 0-for-4.

"We got to do a little better with our offense on a consistent basis," Scioscia said. "Tonight was  a night where I thought we had some real good looks and some pitches to hit and we weren't able to get it done. We got behind and we couldn't get our offense rolling."

Doug Waechter (5-8) got the win for Tampa Bay. At one point, the 24-year-old retired 17 of 18 Angels hitters. The right-hander gave up three runs on seven hits in 7 2/3 innings while striking out five and walking none.

Steve Finley, who sat out the opener on Friday, committed two errors for the first time in his career (2,314 games defensively). The center fielder botched a single that allowed a baserunner to advance in the second inning and made another error in the fourth to allow Julio Lugo to advance to third on a double. Finley, hitting .215 on the season, was 0-for-4 with a pair of strikeouts.

Kennedy singled twice and was 2-for-3, while Darin Erstad was 2-for-4.







