
ANAHEIM -- When Joe Saunders decided to pick the Angels' red alternate jerseys for Sunday's game, he declared loudly before the game that they were "Rally Red."



And while the Angels' offense didn't rally for many runs once again, Saunders did rally, as he pitched 7 1/3 scoreless innings and was helped by Casey Kotchman's two-run home run in the Angels' 2-0 win over the Braves in front of 43,723 fans at Angel Stadium.



Saunders, who tied a career worst by allowing eight runs against the Rays in his previous start, decided it was time for a change after the Angels lost two in a row and four of six.






"On day games I like to wear red and thought I'd switch things up a little bit," Saunders said. "Sometimes when you do that you can pull away with a win. It's like a psychological, superstitious thing."



Whatever the reason for choosing the jerseys, it certainly worked for Saunders. His fastball was constantly in the 91-93 mph range, and he mixed in his sinker to get 12 ground-ball outs. He allowed just five hits, striking out three batters and walking one.



"I was fortunate to throw some good pitches and keep it on the ground to let the defense do some work for me," Saunders said. "My command was there tonight and maybe last outing it wasn't there."



Saunders retired 18 of the last 21 batters he faced before being removed for Scot Shields with one out and none on in the eighth inning. Saunders had trouble in just two innings, throwing 42 of his 99 pitches in those innings.



"I thought Joe was on with his sinker all afternoon and changed his speeds well," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "He kept them off-balance. There wasn't much room for error on the mound as we scored just two runs."



Meanwhile, Braves starter Jorge Campillo also had a solid start, allowing two runs on seven hits in eight innings. He used his off-speed pitches -- with changeups and curveballs dipping as low as 67 mph -- to strike out seven Angels.



"He did a great job with spotting his fastball and giving a couple different off-speed looks," Scioscia said. "We didn't hit the ball hard today. ... We're just fortunate to come away with a win."



The Angels made one of their hard hits count in the fifth inning. Campillo had retired 11 straight batters before allowing a double to Vladimir Guerrero to open the inning. After Torii Hunter struck out, Kotchman pulled a 74-mph changeup over the fence in the right-field corner to put the Angels up, 2-0. It was Kotchman's seventh homer of the season but his first since April 23 at Boston.



"It was tough to see with the shadows and sun almost all game," Kotchman said. "I was just trying to find barrel. It's nice to get one when we were pressed for some runs."



Saunders had a rocky first but got out of the inning unscathed. He allowed two hits to open the game but struck out Chipper Jones and induced Mark Teixeira to hit into an inning-ending double play.



"It was huge for me to get out of the first and get some momentum," said Saunders, who retired 12 of the next 14 batters he faced.



The Braves didn't threaten again until the fifth, when they had runners on second and third with two outs after two singles and a wild pitch by Saunders. But Saunders got Jeff Francoeur to fly out to center to end the inning.



Angels closer Francisco Rodriguez pitched a perfect ninth inning, including two strikeouts, to pick up his 28th save in 29 chances. He has converted 25 consecutive saves, which extends the team record for a single season.



With the win, Saunders became the third American League pitcher to reach the 10-win mark. With the All-Star Game still a month away, Saunders did his best to not talk about his chances of making the All-Star team. But Kotchman feels Saunders deserves the honor.



"He's not the only one that has pitched like an All-Star an our staff or in our bullpen," Kotchman said. "You can't ask any more from them. Now it's up to us to start adding some runs."






