
CLEVELAND -- Orlando Cabrera has no problems being No. 2.

If fact, the Angels shortstop would rather find his name scratched in no other spot on the lineup card and his start this season would support that.

In Friday's series opener with the Indians, Cabrera increased his streak of reaching base by a base hit, walk or hit by pitch to 33 games when he earned a base on balls in the second inning. He also brought in a 12-game hitting streak.

The second half is traditionally been more productive for Cabrera, whose career average is nearly 30 points higher after the All-Star break. But through the first 51 games of this season, Cabrera is hitting .284 and leading the team with 40 runs scored.

Cabrera gives much of the credit to his spot in the batting order.

"The one thing is having [Chone] Figgins in front of me and stealing [bases] and doing all the crazy things," Cabrera said. "Pitchers worry about him and not about me and I take advantage of that."

Figgins has turned into one of the premier basestealers in the game, but Cabrera also benefits from having one of baseball's most feared sluggers batting behind him in Vladimir Guerrero.

Through much of last season, Cabrera batted down in the order, usually sixth. But the shift to second boosted his production and allowed the Angels to set their offense in motion more effectively.

"When we moved him up to the two hole last season, he felt more comfortable," manager Mike Scioscia said. "He has carried that over to this year and understands the dynamics of the two hole, and he understands the league more."

Cabrera said it took him most of the first half last season learning new pitchers and new ballparks as he moved over full time from the National League, where he played parts of eight seasons in Montreal. With the Angels, Cabrera is part of a system and he likes his role.

"I just work with what we have and I work with the situation," Cabrera said. "We have a lot of different types of baseball players here, speed guys and power guys. I just try to put the ball in play, bunt a little, steal a base and try to let the guys behind me see enough pitches."

Rehab report: Bartolo Colon (sore right shoulder) showed no ill effects from his four-inning start at Class A Rancho Cucamonga on Thursday afternoon.

The right-hander tossed four scoreless frames and touched 93 mph on the radar gun. Colon will make his next start Tuesday in Fresno, where he will be targeted for the 75-85 pitch range.

Darin Erstad (sore right ankle), the designated hitter at Rancho Cucamonga on Friday, will join the Triple-A Salt Lake Bees this weekend. Both he and Maicer Izturis (left hamstring strain) will play until Wednesday, when they will be re-evaluated.

Progress: Kendry Morales struggled at each level of the Minors after joining the organization last year, but he has been holding his own with the Angels since his May 22 call-up.

Morales was hitting .257 with a double and two homers in 35 at-bats entering Friday, and he has been equally effective from the right and left sides of the plate. He has also handled breaking pitches with greater ease.

"It is always a game of adjustments. Once you start playing in the big leagues, the [scouting] reports start becoming more specific and the league starts to do different things," Scioscia said. "You have to make adjustments and Kendry has been doing that."

New date: The Angels and White Sox will make up their May 11 rainout Monday, Aug. 7 at 5:05 p.m. PT. The game will come at the beginning of a three-city trip and create a string of 24 games without a day off.

On the farm: Dustin Moseley allowed two runs, one earned, on four hits over four innings to take the loss for Salt Lake against Tacoma on Thursday. Chris Bootcheck allowed six runs on four hits over one inning of relief. ... Brandon Wood hit his 10th home run in Double-A Arkansas' 12-7 loss to Frisco.

On deck: The Angels will play the Indians in the second game of the series on Saturday at 10:20 a.m. PT on FOX, with right-hander Kelvim Escobar set to face Cleveland left-hander Cliff Lee. Right-hander John Lackey will start against the Indians on Sunday.






