
SEATTLE -- Vladimir Guerrero is a mystery even to those who share his profession.

There is simply nobody like him. He is completely unique.

Guerrero put the Angels on his broad shoulders on Thursday night and lifted them to a 6-4 victory over the dazed Mariners that left them one win away from reaching two monumental peaks: 100 victories in a season and the best record in the American League, insuring home-field advantage throughout the postseason.

Guerrero made it happen with two majestic swings of his bat, lifting home runs to right and left field, the latter, in the top of the ninth against Mariners closer J.J. Putz, deciding the Angels' final road game of the regular season.

"I wish I knew how he did  that," Putz  said. "I threw that pitch up and in many times like that and gotten ground balls. I mean, it didn't even sound good coming off his bat. Some of the guys on the bench said it sounded like a broken bat.

"I usually throw Vlad hard in, off the plate, so he can't extend his arms -- and that's where the pitch was. It was up and running in on his hands. Somehow, he kept his hands in. You have to tip your hat to him."

Watching from the on-deck circle, Torii Hunter once again was shaking his head in wonder as the big man from the Dominican Republic trotted around the bases for the 27th time this season and for the 392nd time of his career. Only 48 men have hit more out of the yard.

"Vladdy's one of the best hitters of all-time, and he showed it," Hunter said. "I don't know how he did it. You guys don't understand how hard it is to do that. Yesterday he hit one off the ground and it almost got out down the [left-field] line. I saw dirt come up on that one.

"I don't know anybody who hits like that. It's all hand-eye coordination. I can only imagine when he was in his younger days and could run. He's a little banged up, but he's still got those hands."

This was Guerrero's 36th multi-homer game of his career and his third this season. He lifted his average to .304, and with three games left, against the Rangers in Anaheim starting on Friday night, is within hailing distance of joining Lou Gehrig as the only players in history with 11 consecutive seasons of 25-plus homers and a .300 or higher average.

"I don't think there's any way to pitch to him," said Dustin Moseley, who gave the Angels five solid innings (two runs, six hits) for the third straight time. "He can hit anything. That's why he's a superstar."

The win went to Jose Arredondo, who got five outs in relief but surrendered a tying two-run homer to Yuniesky Betancourt in the seventh. At 10-2, Arredondo is the sixth Angels pitcher to reach double figures in wins.

With Francisco Rodriguez getting a day off, Scot Shields got primed for the postseason with a perfect ninth inning, nailing down his fourth save.

The Angels collected 11 hits, two apiece by Guerrero, Hunter, Mark Teixeira and Mike Napoli. It was Teixeira, whose homer won Wednesday night's game, banging a single in front of Guerrero's blast to left in the ninth.

Napoli batted .600 on the road trip with three homers and seven RBIs in 25 at-bats, lifting his average to .265.






