
ANAHEIM -- Howie Kendrick proved he could hit in four productive Minor League seasons.

But during his first turn in the Majors earlier this year, Kendrick found out quickly he had something new to master: the big-league breaking ball.

So after going 3-for-23 in his first callup, Kendrick returned to Triple-A and concentrated on hitting offspeed pitches.

"They started doing the same thing to me up here as they were doing down there," Kendrick said. "I just focused on slowing the game down and making adjustments to not swing at balls off the plate."

Kendrick credits his work with Salt Lake hitting coach Jim Eppard and games with Colorado Springs, which fed him a steady diet of breaking pitches.

"Some teams just decided to pitch me one way," Kendrick said. "Facing [Colorado Springs] worked to my advantage because I was able work on hitting off-speed."

It showed in the fourth inning Tuesday night when Indians left-hander Cliff Lee started him out with a breaking ball and Kendrick swung through it. He then lined a changeup to left to score two runs that Kendrick admitted was also a bit of guesswork.

Kendrick is beginning to push his way into the Angels' lineup against left-handers, along with Robb Quinlan, to help boost the team's production. Entering Wednesday, the Angels were hitting .254 against lefties. As his progress continues, though, a platoon system will not be in Kendrick's future for long.

"When he gets in the batter's box, he doesn't remind you of anyone because he is special," manager Mike Scioscia said. "I think he is going to separate himself [from the pack] as his career moves on because of the offensive talent that he has."

Getting close: Jered Weaver threw a "touch" bullpen session Wednesday and will throw a full bullpen Friday, when the club will reevaluate the right-hander. If he does not suffer any setbacks, Weaver will start Sunday in Kansas City.

"We're very confident that he will be ready, but he has to show us," Scioscia said.

Weaver has been sidelined with biceps tendinitis, a condition that also bothered him in college and one he felt in his last two starts. If Weaver cannot go, he will be placed on the disabled list, retroactive to July 9. Left-hander Joe Saunders would start in his place.

Right-hander Kelvim Escobar has done a more convincing job in his recovery from a sore right elbow and is on target to pitch Saturday against the Royals, Scioscia said.

Tick, tock: Casey Kotchman has missed a total of 61 games this season as he recovers from mononucleosis. The first baseman played well in Spring Training, but struggled in the early going this season and was placed on the disabled list May 9.

The club has yet to close the window on the season for Kotchman, but time continues to shorten.

"Right now, we want to get Casey feeling good," Scioscia said. "This year is slipping through some cracks, but we're not giving up yet."

Carving a niche: Kotchman was supposed to take over for Darin Erstad this season at first base. Most scouts believe Kotchman has similar defensive skills to the three-time Gold Glove-winning Erstad, who won two in center field and another at first, but his illness has kept him off the field.

That has created a platoon at first base this season that has included recent starter Kendry Morales, Quinlan, Kendrick and also Dallas McPherson. During his most recent rehab assignment, McPherson has been playing some first base.

With Kotchman becoming a more doubtful proposition to return this season, McPherson could be a future option there. The Angels prefer players that can move around to multiple positions, especially from their bench.

"If a guy is more versatile, there is more opportunity. Look at [Quinlan] and [Maicer Izturis]," Scioscia said. "That versatility will help Dallas and our lineup because we can use his power bat."

No news: Erstad returned from New York with no change in the diagnosis that he has a sore right ankle caused by bone spurs and years of wear and tear that has produced some arthritis, Scioscia said.

Erstad was seen in New York by foot specialist Dr. William Hamilton, who is the orthopedist for the New York City Ballet. The outfielder will not accompany the team on its upcoming road trip.

On the farm: Class A Rancho Cucamonga right-hander Nick Adenhart (2-1) allowed eight runs (seven earned) on nine hits and two walks with four strikeouts over 6 2/3 innings to take the loss on Tuesday. It was just the third loss in 20 starts this season for Adenhart, who was 10-2 at Cedar Rapids before his promotion.

On deck: The Angels will head out on the road on a three-city, 10-game road trip that begins in Kansas City. Right-hander Ervin Santana (11-3, 3.88 ERA) is scheduled to face Royals left-hander Jimmy Gobble (3-3, 4.58 ERA) on Thursday at 5:10 p.m. PT. Bartolo Colon will start against Kansas City on Friday.







