
TEMPE, Ariz. -- It's 8:20 a.m., and Mike Scioscia has been at work for two hours, planning, reviewing paperwork, taking calls, planning some more. It's the life of a Major League manager in the spring when the typical work day lasts at least 12 hours.

Embarking on his eighth season as Angels manager, Scioscia has lost none of his passion for the work. He has his daily meeting with the club between 9:15 and 9:30 a.m. and then hits the various fields, teaching and counseling his players, conferring with his coaches, trying to take care of all the small details that add up in the big picture. His day will end between 6 and 7 p.m., depending on the afternoon's events.

As he leans back in his chair in the manager's office at Tempe Diablo Stadium, having squeezed an interview with MLB.com into his tight schedule, Scioscia has his mind on today and tomorrow, not yesterday.

That 2002 magical mystery ride to a World Series title will always be with him, lifting his spirits on his rare down days, but he's not a guy who dwells in the past.

As much as loved those 2002 Angels, Scioscia's mind is focused on the 2007 version and a fresh cast of characters led by a group of veterans who, as they say, have been there -- and can show the way.



 MLB.com:  How would you characterize this spring overall? Have you accomplished what you set out to do?



 Scioscia:  It's been, as far as what's happening on the field -- intensity, quality of drills -- as productive as any camp we've been in here.



MLB.com: How will the loss of Chone Figgins for five to six weeks with two fractured fingers on his right hand impact your team?



 Scioscia:  Well, Chone's obviously a valuable player for us, and he was having a terrific spring at third base. I'm not sure I've ever been around a guy who can play so many positions so well. Our team speed is spread out. Figgy is an electric baserunner, but with Maicer Izturis, Orlando Cabrera, Gary Matthews Jr., guys like that, the team speed's going to be there. We'll still run the bases aggressively. We have two guys who have played third -- Izzy and Q [Robb Quinlan] -- and we'll have the depth we need. Howard Kendrick and Shea Hillenbrand also can play there.



 MLB.com:  What has been your main area of focus this spring?



 Scioscia:  Defensively, on the fundamental side, I think we've got a lot accomplished there. The attitude on the field has been terrific. Seeing Bartolo Colon (rotator cuff tear) and Jered Weaver (biceps tendinitis) come back, looking better all the time, has been very encouraging. I really like our pitching staff, and we've swung the bats well and run the bases.



 MLB.com:  What have been the main issues or disruptions?



 Scioscia:  We've had a few things to deal with, like the controversy with Gary and Chone's injury. But they really haven't been distractions. These guys have handled everything very professionally. We're ready for the season.













 MLB.com:  Your first big-league manager, the inimitable Tommy Lasorda, used to ask the rhetorical question, "What motivates the motivator?" Now that you're the motivator, what motivates you?



 Scioscia:  I don't self-analyze a lot. I try to be myself. I know that the passion I have for this game is real. I love seeing a team grow together, come together. I love getting all the parts to work, the day-to-day challenges involved. It's the same with our coaching staff. What motivates us is our passion for the game.



 MLB.com:  From a personal standpoint, what's the most important aspect of Spring Training? 





 Scioscia:  If you're can connect with your players, you're going in the right direction. That's what our organization strives for. It's easy to get motivated when you see a guy like Jeff Mathis show up three years ago, wide-eyed, just loving baseball. These guys, you have to keep in mind, some of them are kids, 19, 20 years old. They're playing baseball for the right reason and appreciate the opportunity to play professional baseball.



 MLB.com:  How do you retain that passion for the game? 



 Scioscia:  You think about a guy like George Brett. I guarantee you the last time he was on a baseball field, he loved the game as much as when he was a kid playing on the sandlot. The pure love for the game, it's easy to connect with that.



 MLB.com:  With most of the 2002 cast gone now, has this club developed its own identity yet? 



 Scioscia:  We've had some minor transitions as we've moved along in our eight years here, but this is the biggest. It's important for these guys to develop a personality together. It's going to come along the same lines as the guys who just moved on, and it's going to be exciting for us and for fans in Southern California to watch and see how they play the game. These kids -- Kendricks, Casey Kotchman, Mathis, Ervin Santana, Mike Napoli -- have played together in the Minor  Leagues. They bring a lot of confidence into this camp and on the field.



 MLB.com:  Can it be a problem if you're trying to break in too many players in key roles at the same time? 



 Scioscia:  It reminds me of a lot of guys I came up with in the Dodgers' organization -- Pedro Guerrero, Steve Sax, Orel Hershiser, Bobby Welch, Fernando Valenzuela. We were confident; we knew we were going to win. We had veterans who emphasized to us that we were important to the team, and that's what we have here with our veteran guys. The talent comes in all containers. Some are older, some are younger. If you're trying to break in three or four guys at the same time, they'd better be difference-makers on the field to make up for inexperience in playing in the big leagues. We think these guys are very talented.



 MLB.com: How are you adjusting to losing your pitching coach of seven years, Buddy Black, to the Padres as their manager and replacing him with Mike Butcher? 



 Scioscia:  Guys on our coaching staff are going to get opportunities to manage, and we're all for that. Buddy was tremendous, and we all wish him the best. It's like when Joe Maddon left to manage Tampa Bay. We have a lot of talent on our coaching staff to draw from, and things have gone very smoothly with Mike Butcher. He was in the organization [for six years] before going to Tampa Bay [in 2006], so he knows our pitchers; he's worked with them. As an organization, you develop coaches like you develop players. Dino Ebel worked with the Dodgers a long time (17 years) and is a terrific baseball mind. We're thrilled to get him as our third base coach. The staff is going to evolve; that's part of the game.



 MLB.com:  Any predictions for 2007? 



 Scioscia:  I really like our ballclub. I think we'll be a contender in a very competitive American League West. I like our chances.






