
ANAHEIM -- An eight-time All-Star with starting assignments in the past four Midsummer Classics representing the Angels, Vladimir Guerrero leads an impressive contingent of Angels players on the official Major League All-Star ballot released on Tuesday.

Joining Guerrero are first baseman Casey Kotchman, second baseman Howie Kendrick, shortstop Maicer Izturis, third baseman Chone Figgins, outfielders Torii Hunter and Gary Matthews Jr., catcher Mike Napoli and designated hitter Garret Anderson.

The 79th Midsummer Classic will be the fourth held at Yankee Stadium and the eighth in New York City. The Yankees previously hosted the All-Star Game in 1939, 1960 and 1977; the Polo Grounds held the game in 1934 and 1942; Ebbets Field was the site in 1949; and Shea Stadium hosted the 1964 Midsummer Classic.

Fans can cast their votes for starters up to 25 times with the Monster 2008 All-Star Online Ballot at MLB.com and all 30 club sites until Wednesday, July 2, at 8:59 p.m. PT.

Fans also will be able to cast ballots at Angel Stadium starting on May 2 and ending on June 17. Each Major League club has 24 home dates available for fan voting.

Starting rosters will be announced during the 2008 All-Star Game Selection Show presented by Chevrolet on TBS on Sunday, July 6. Baseball fans around the world will then be able to select the final player on each team via the Monster 2008 All-Star Final Vote at MLB.com.

And the voting doesn't end there. Fans will have the opportunity to participate in the official voting for the Ted Williams Most Valuable Player presented by Chevrolet at the All-Star Game via the Monster 2008 All-Star Game MVP vote at MLB.com.

The All-Star Game will be televised nationally by FOX Sports and around the world by Major League Baseball International. ESPN Radio will provide exclusive national radio play-by-play, while MLB.com will offer extensive online coverage.

Most conspicuous among Angels players by his omission on the ballot is Erick Aybar. The acrobatic shortstop has been sensational defensively while providing unexpected offense as Izturis has spent most of his time at second base with Kendrick injured.

Since the Angels rotate their outfielders in the DH role, one of their four outfielders had to be listed among the designated hitters, and it was Anderson.

A three-time American League All-Star, Anderson was the MVP of the 2003 Classic when he doubled, homered, singled and drove in two runs after winning the Home Run Derby.





Hunter, the new center fielder, and Matthews have All-Star experience along with Guerrero and Anderson. Hunter appeared in the 2002 and 2007 All-Star Games as a member of the Twins, while Matthews performed for the AL in the 2006 showcase in Pittsburgh while playing for the Rangers.

A seven-time Rawlings Gold Glove Award winner, Hunter has quickly established himself with his new club both on and off the field as a formidable presence. He has shown his total game with a walk-off grand slam on the first homestand and a game-saving catch on the second homestand.

Kotchman and Figgins also have emerged as strong candidates for the All-Star squad with superb play at first and third, respectively.

Kotchman has ranked among the league leaders in batting average, homers and slugging percentage in April while playing Gold Glove-caliber defense. Figgins has been a leadoff catalyst with few equals while also playing superb defense.

The State Farm Home Run Derby champion last year in San Francisco, Guerrero was joined on the AL All-Star squad by starter John Lackey and closer Francisco Rodriguez. K-Rod saved the American League's 5-4 victory.

Guerrero achieved a major personal milestone on Saturday in Detroit when he reached 2,000 career hits with a double and triple.

Since 1950, only three hitters came to 2,000 lifetime hits with fewer at-bats than Guerrero's 6,171. Wade Boggs made it with 5,832 at-bats, Rod Carew with 5,965 and Tony Gwynn with 6,094.

What distinguishes Guerrero from this company is obvious. Hall of Famers Boggs, Carew and Gwynn were primarily singles and doubles hitters. Vlad swings from the heels and launches tape-measure blasts.

Guerrero has more career homers (368) than Gwynn (135), Boggs (118) and Carew (92) combined. Vlad's career slugging average is .578. Gwynn slugged at a .459 clip, Boggs .443 and Carew .429.

Unlike many big swingers, Guerrero makes consistent contact. He has never struck out 100 times in a season -- 95 is his high, in 1998. He has struck out 752 times in his career while walking 625 times.

In the past 50 years, only Gwynn, with 17, and Carew, with 13, have batted at least .300 in more consecutive seasons than Guerrero, who has done it the past 11 seasons.






