
ANAHEIM -- Bengie Molina put the club on his shoulders and took it along for the ride Tuesday.

His solo shot in the fifth broke a tie and led to the Angels' 2-1 win over the Twins. But his guidance of four pitchers through nine innings, while riding eight of those with a sore left wrist and forearm after getting hit by a foul tip in the second inning, proved his resolve to get his club and his young starter back on the winning track.

That starter was Ervin Santana, who was last seen leaving the mound in Texas on the wrong end of a four-run deficit. The Rangers touched the right-hander for seven runs and connected for three homers in that outing as his fastball was flat and elevated.

But Molina had one basic thought in mind for Santana on Tuesday: keep the ball down.

"He told me, 'Down here. Don't worry about the hitter,'" Santana said of Molina's advice to locate low in the zone. "'Just hit the target.'"

Santana was indeed back on target, albeit with an elevated pitch-count. He was pulled after his five innings required 96 pitches, and he threw 35 in the first inning alone. That frame appeared to be more of the same for Santana as Shannon Stewart led off the game with a single and scored on Joe Mauer's one-out single.

He then gave up a base hit to Torii Hunter and Mauer went to third. After Santana struck out Jacque Jones, he walked Lew Ford on four pitches to load the bases. But Justin Morneau popped up to first baseman Darin Erstad to end the inning.

"Ervin was sharp early, even though it took him a lot of pitches," manager Mike Scioscia said. "He pitched behind a lot in the count, but he got the big pitch when he needed it."

Santana (3-3) admitted being a little nervous to start, but he was able to relax after the first inning. Despite a leadoff walk in the second, Santana faced the minimum by getting a pair of flyouts and Molina cut down Luis Rodriguez on an attempted steal at second.

He then retired the next eight batters before surrendering back-to-back singles with two down in the fifth, but Vladimir Guerrero charged Mauer's sinking liner to end the threat.

Scioscia said that he and pitching coach Bud Black felt the best approach with Santana was to keep the information in small doses. To help with their lesson plan, they turned to Molina, a cornerstone of the club and a two-time Gold Glove Award winner.

"It was important for him to throw his game," Molina said. "I told him, 'Pitch your game and make them adjust to you instead of you adjusting to them.'"

Santana had life with his fastball Tuesday, hitting the gun routinely in the low- to mid-90s, but Molina said Santana was not as effective with his slider, often missing on the opposite batter's box.

At that point, Molina said he worked with Santana to mix up his pitch selection and keep the hitters off balance. That may have contributed to his higher than desired pitch count, but Scioscia said they're willing to live with it.

"As he becomes more able to make pitches, he will be more efficient," Scioscia said. "Right now, we're going to take production however we can get it, even if it takes 100 pitches."

Santana handed the ball over to Kevin Gregg after allowing one run on five hits and two walks. He also struck out two. Gregg made his first appearance since being recalled from Triple-A Salt Lake on July 1 and tossed a scoreless inning.

Scot Shields followed Gregg and delivered two shutout frames while Francisco Rodriguez tossed the ninth to convert his 16th save in 18 opportunities.

Scioscia handed much of the credit for holding the Twins scoreless for 8 2/3 innings Tuesday to Molina, who fought through pain for much of the night.

"He had two young pitchers (Santana and Gregg) out there that may be a little high-strung, but he blocked a lot of balls in the dirt and he got them through it," Scioscia said of Molina.

Molina expressed concern about twice getting hit on the same wrist that was operated on during the offseason before 2003, but he was able to block it out when he came to the plate in the fifth.

"Once you're in the batter's box all the adrenaline takes over," Molina said.

The Angels scored their first run when Chone Figgins doubled to lead off the inning and came home on a groundout by Guerrero.

Starter Scott Baker (0-1) was sharp for the Twins, allowing two runs on five hits and two walks over five innings to take the loss.







