
SEATTLE -- Chone Figgins was in familiar territory Wednesday when he shifted spots in the diamond.

Just three games into the season, Figgins started at his second position when he took over at second base for Adam Kennedy against the left-handed Jarrod Washburn. The super-utilitarian opened the year at third base and handled his impending assignment Wednesday with ease.

"I've been through this the last couple of years," Figgins said. "I don't try to think about it too much."

Figgins worked out this spring almost exclusively at third with some action at second at the beginning and the end of camp. Last season, he opened the year as the starting second baseman while Kennedy rehabbed his knee and eventually started at six different positions for the second consecutive year.

Figgins said he would prefer to stay in one spot but understands his role is to play where he's needed and be the offensive sparkplug atop the order. And switching positions has not posed a hindrance to his ability to swing the bat. He hit .281 before the break and .300 after the break while hitting .308 as the designated hitter last season.

"I separate them; they are two different sides of the ball," Figgins said. "Whatever happens on defense, you leave it on defense and whatever happens on offense, you leave it on offense."

Observer: Kennedy got his first seat on the bench in Wednesday's series finale against the Mariners. He appeared in 127 games at second base last season after returning from double surgery but the reserve infield situation is a little deeper with Figgins, Edgardo Alfonzo and Maicer Izturis all likely to get time in the field.

Kennedy said he would rather start but will roll with the decision.

"I wouldn't say I'm surprised," Kennedy said. "You just deal with it."

With a left-hander starting for Seattle on Wednesday, Alfonzo started at third base in an effort to add a right-handed bat to the lineup. The Angels hit .277 against left-handers last season and manager Mike Scioscia said he's trying to find his best lineups against lefties without compromising the defense.

"This might not always be the alignment but this gives us another right-handed bat," Scioscia said.

One left-handed hitter that started Wednesday was Angels center fielder Darin Erstad, who has returned to the outfield this season. Kennedy understood it was his day to sit so he prepared for a possible pinch-hitting appearance.

"It is a little early to speculate or for this to be an issue," Kennedy said. "You don't have the 3-4 at-bats that you normally would so if I get up, I'll just try and be aggressive. That works for me anyway."

Impact player: The Angels searched for a bat during the offseason and when they couldn't locate one from outside the organization they concentrated on their hitters on the inside.

Juan Rivera was one of those and the outfielder/DH has made a splash in his two starts on the young season, going 3-for-8 with a homer and three RBIs. His two-run homer in Tuesday's 10-8 loss to the Mariners pulled the Angels within a run in the eighth and he added an RBI double in a three-run Angels' ninth.

"For him to contribute offensively, it is going to be huge for our club," Scioscia said. "I think we're going to depend on Juan."

Tim Salmon started at DH on Wednesday with Garret Anderson in left field. Rivera will return to the lineup on Friday against the Yankees, Scioscia said.

Debut: Jeff Mathis got his first Major League start Wednesday when he caught for right-hander Jeff Weaver. The rookie was a first round sandwich pick in 2001 and the club said he's benefited from being a part of big league camp the past couple of years.

"He's ready for the challenge," Scioscia said. "He was fun to be around (in camp). He was able to see how the pitcher/catcher relationship worked."

Picked up: Scott Dunn was claimed by the Devil Rays on Wednesday. The right-hander had been removed from the 40-man roster and placed on waivers to make room for Tim Salmon.

On deck: The Angels will be off Thursday and will host the Yankees on Friday at 7:05 p.m. PT in the home opener. Right-hander Kelvim Escobar will start against New York right-hander Shawn Chacon. Right-hander Ervin Santana is scheduled to start against the Yankees on Saturday.








