
ANAHEIM -- As debuts go, Nick Adenhart would prefer to get another shot. Because if the first impression is a lasting one, the kid is a work in progress.

The Angels top pitching prospect was called up from Triple-A Salt Lake to make his first Major League start Thursday, but despite his hotly anticipated arrival, the outing was brief and the hook was decisive.

A bigger problem, though, and one that effectively mitigated Adenhart's struggles, was the performance of the Angels' bullpen that produced a 15-8 loss to the A's and a series split.

But Adenhart looked no further than his own line.

"I let down the team first. You always want to go out and prove yourself to your teammates and your manager and your coaches," Adenhart said. "I was a disappointment to myself also. Before the game you visualize yourself going out having a great day and how you prepare for the day but I just have to bounce back."

Unfortunately for the Angels, the bullpen followed suit.

After bailing out their rookie hurler by erasing Adenhart's 4-0 hole with a five-run second inning, the bullpen collapsed as three relievers combined to allow 10 runs with Dustin Moseley and Darren O'Day giving up five and four runs respectively.

"When you're not getting the ball in good zones, they're a patient club over there," manager Mike Scioscia said. "We set the table for them and when they got on base we didn't make pitches to hold them. It got ugly and that can happen. It is not a forgiving league and they were swinging the bats."

The Angels were looking to take the series against their divisional rival and open a two-game advantage over the A's with the Orioles set to come to town for a three-game series starting Friday.

After demoting Moseley to the bullpen, Thursday's slot in the rotation and the Angels opted for Adenhart on three days' rest over Nick Green on regular rest or possibly Shane Loux.

Adenhart officially put two innings in the books, departing in the third after issuing a walk to Frank Thomas and a shot up the middle to Emil Brown, but overall looked unready to face a patient, big league lineup.

It started well for Adenhart, who tossed his first big league pitch for a strike and cruised through the first inning by setting the A's down in order. The 21-year-old right-hander then retired Thomas on a ground ball but gave up a solid single to Brown to face his first baserunner.

From there Adenhart appeared to lose command of his pitches and his release point. He walked the next two and then uncorked a wild pitch to score Brown. Adenhart followed up with two more walks to force in Cust and Kurt Suzuki drove in a pair with a single to left.

"He didn't have enough command to have a chance," Scioscia said. "He was obviously out of sync and he couldn't bring his better pitches into the game. He couldn't establish his changeup. He didn't get his fastball into good zones."

After opening the third by allowing the first two runners to reach base, Scioscia pulled Adenhart with 57 pitches to his credit. Perhaps it was the short rest. Maybe it was just nerves but one thing it wasn't was a loss as Adenhart drew a no-decision for his first start.

"We just wanted to be patient. You could tell from the get-go he was a little erratic," said Bobby Crosby. "You knew he really couldn't command his pitches, so you just want to get on any way you could."

A's manager Bob Geren said the plan was to make him work.

"Three days' rest, first game in the big leagues," Geren said. "A lot of our guys hadn't seen him, too, so obviously you want to take a look and make him throw some pitches."

The line won't have an immediate effect as Adenhart is slated to make two more starts until John Lackey returns from the disabled list in a couple of weeks. What it tells the club is Adenhart will likely benefit from more starts in Triple-A.

"It's not uncommon for a starter and try to do a little too much," Scioscia said. "Nick has a great arm. He's got great stuff there is no doubt about it. I think we saw out there he was a little out of sync."

And there is no rush.

Drafted out of Williamsport, Maryland High School in 2004, Adenhart spent a year on the shelf rehabbing from Tommy John ligament replacement surgery in his right elbow and has since pitched only three Minor League seasons prior to this year.

Adenhart opened the season in Salt Lake with a 4-0 record and an 0.87 ERA in five starts but also walked 15 with 19 strikeouts. The Angels would like to see Adenhart cut down his walks. On Thursday, he walked five and did not strike out a batter.

Adenhart said he'll put in his work and get ready for his next start.

"I got a lot of encouragement from the guys," Adenhart said. "They said to keep your head up and that is part of the game."






