
Judging by an outpouring of e-mails to MLB.com over the past month, Angels fans are divided over the club's two major moves since the American League West champs were unceremoniously swept by the Red Sox in the 2007 AL Division Series.

They're delighted with the investment in center fielder Torii Hunter, but they're simply not buying the shipment of shortstop Orlando Cabrera to the White Sox for starting pitcher Jon Garland.

At least four of five responses have been critical of the swap that detached Cabrera, a Rawlings Gold Glove winner and .301 hitter in 2007 who provided stability and leadership for three seasons in Anaheim.

The prevailing attitude is that it was too steep a price to pay for a pitcher coming off a 10-13 season with a 4.23 ERA.

Cabrera, 33, was one of the club's most valuable and consistent performers; no one disputes that Erick Aybar and Maicer Izturis have a stiff challenge in replacing him.

But Garland, at 28, is far from a mid-level pitcher. Over the past five years, he's tied with new teammate John Lackey for ninth in the Majors in wins, with 70.

As for 2007, Garland was "better than his won-loss record," Angels manager Mike Scioscia maintained. "He's proved he's going to take the ball, make his 30-plus starts and get deep in games. He's a guy who can pitch in the front of a rotation."

No starter in the game was harmed so badly by two forgettable outings. On July 6, he surrendered 11 earned runs in 3 1/3 innings against Hunter and the Twins. On Aug. 2, Garland was pounded for eight earned runs in 1 1/3 innings by the Yankees.

Strip away those two nightmares, and his ERA -- 3.49 for 30 of 32 starts -- would have placed him 10th in the league.

Garland lasted at least seven innings in 21 of his starts. The Angels' leader was Lackey, with 19 trips into the seventh and beyond, followed by Kelvim Escobar (17), Jered Weaver (seven), Ervin Santana (six), Bartolo Colon (five) and Joe Saunders (three).

Since taking a line drive off Fred McGriff's bat in 2000, his rookie year, Garland has not missed a start because of injury. Moving full-time into the White Sox rotation in 2002, Garland has averaged 207 innings per season and 6.4 innings per start. Those are workhorse numbers in this age.

"I feel like I'm getting better," Garland said. "I think I've learned a lot and become a better pitcher."

Adding Garland to an already deep rotation figures to spare wear and tear on a bullpen that faltered late last season, in part because of stress caused by injuries and inconsistencies at the back end of the rotation.

Scioscia targeted Garland as a man of interest at the organizational meetings during the last week of the regular season in Texas, according to owner Arte Moreno.







Scioscia sees the 6-foot-6 Garland as a strike thrower who has managed to get deep in games throughout his career while making half of his starts in one of the Majors' hitters' paradises: U.S. Cellular Field.

"You can make the best pitch in the world," Garland said of his former home park, "and a guy can put a swing on it and hit it out. Here [at Angel Stadium] I'll be able to go after guys -- that's the biggest key. At U.S. Cellular, you know the ball can fly out of the park at any time."

Across the past three seasons, 660 home runs have been hit there. Only Cincinnati's Great American Ball Park, with 718 homers, has produced more. By contrast, Angel Stadium has yielded 415 homers the past three seasons.

"He'll definitely benefit from pitching in a fair park -- and having [Hunter] roam center field won't hurt either," Lackey, the ace, said in welcoming Garland aboard.

The Angels seem to like their chances of forming a long-term relationship with Garland, who, like Cabrera, can become a free agent after the 2008 season. A graduate of Kennedy High School in Granada Hills, Calif., the same school that produced new teammate Garret Anderson, Garland clearly is thrilled to be home.

Finally, not to be overlooked is Garland's history of rising to the challenge with the White Sox during their 2005 championship run.

Making his first career postseason appearance in Game 3 of the AL Championship Series, Garland went the distance at Angel Stadium in a 5-2 victory. It was a pivotal triumph for Chicago, which took charge of the series behind Garland's effort and didn't lose another game, sweeping Houston in the World Series.

The man Garland outdueled in Anaheim was Lackey. Garland threw 83 strikes among 118 pitches, giving up four hits and one walk while striking out seven men. The only runs he allowed came on a two-run homer by Cabrera.

Working Game 3 of the World Series in Houston, Garland went seven innings, yielding two earned runs. He didn't factor in the decision -- the White Sox won in 14 innings on Geoff Blum's homer -- but he kept his team in the game.

In 16 postseason innings, Garland surrendered 11 hits, three walks and four earned runs for a 2.25 ERA. Clearly, pressure doesn't bother this guy.

"It definitely boosts your confidence, knowing you can help a team get in that position and that a team can count on you," Garland said. "To get back to the playoffs and win a championship ... that's what it's all about. I expect big things of myself and the team."







