
ANAHEIM -- Like Mike Scioscia, his manager, the man who pays the Angels' bills believes in living in the moment. An offseason loaded with big decisions will be addressed when the time comes, owner Arte Moreno said before Friday night's series opener against the Yankees at Angel Stadium.

"I only think about tonight's game," Moreno said with a laugh. "For us, it's one of those deals where you're moving around the boards all the time. We're looking at our depth, who's going to be where, when, and what it's going to cost you.

"If we get in a situation where really economics doesn't play, it's not [as if] we have an unlimited amount of cash that we can do whatever we want to do. We're looking at everything. We look at our pitching, our bullpen, infield, outfield, catching."

The acquisition of first baseman Mark Teixeira, who can join Francisco Rodriguez and Jon Garland as premium free agents this winter, has fueled considerable speculation nationally. The Angels have options on outfielders Vladimir Guerrero and Garret Anderson, and veteran lefty Darren Oliver also is a potential free agent.

"I think the press does more to start trying to formulate what the market is," Moreno said. "That's something we need to look at and fit in what we're doing. There are a lot of players we'd like to have we feel fit on the ballclub.

"We can't pay everybody 18 to 20 million. Within reason
we have proven we can be in the top five or six payrolls today. But I'm not sure what's going to happen next year."

Having said that, Moreno also clearly relishes the notion that his Angels can be perennial contenders -- and will do everything within reason to keep them in that position.

"Obviously, it's an investment for us," he said, "and we feel comfortable with what we're spending right now -- and we'll probably be spending that much next year."

There are decisions to be made on arbitration-eligible players and a number of young talents in the farm system pushing for jobs.

The organization is especially rich in infielders on the threshold of the Major Leagues. Brandon Wood, Matt Brown, Sean Rodriguez, Kendry Morales and Freddy Sandoval are all enjoying big seasons at Triple-A Salt Lake. Brown, selected to represent the United States at the Beijing Olympics, could join Morales and Robb Quinlan as first-base candidates if Teixeira is not signed.

As for Teixeira, who has made an immediate impact after arriving from Atlanta, Moreno hasn't second-guessed the decision to surrender Casey Kotchman -- a quality player the club had under its control for three more years -- for a man who might turn out to be an expensive rental.

"There is zero regret," Moreno said. "I'm one of those people, if you make a decision, you draw a line and move forward. You can't look back. We know what happened yesterday, but we have to figure out where we're going. We have a lot of confidence that if we can't accomplish what we want to accomplish, we have people ready to take that position.

"We wouldn't make that move [for Teixeira] unless we felt that we had enough strength in the organization to move forward."






