
Angels Baseball reached an agreement with FSN West on Thursday that ensures nearly all 2005 regular-season games will be on television.

Thursday's announcement adds 52 Angels game telecasts to the network's 2005 schedule, bringing the total number of regular-season Angels games on all TV outlets to 158. The additional Angels telecasts on FSN West boost that network's full schedule to 102 games, the most ever telecast on FSN West in its 13-year partnership with the team.

Angels games this season will also be carried on KCAL 9, FOX's Saturday game of the week and ESPN's "Sunday Night Baseball."

"As the Angels fan base in Southern California grows, we are delighted to expand with it by delivering the most Angels telecasts in FSN West history," said Steve Simpson, VP/general manger of FSN West and FSN West 2. "With 52 games added to our telecast schedule for a total of 102 games, 21 more than last year, FSN West is hands down the primary home of Angels baseball locally."

The Angels' 2005 TV schedule opens with the regular-season lid-lifter against the Rangers on Tuesday, April 5, at 7 p.m. PT on FSN West.

Local production will telecast 151 regular-season games with FOX and ESPN picking up a combined seven national games. KCAL 9 will also carry Game 1 of the Freeway Series against the Dodgers on Friday, April 1.

FSN West will telecast 62 home games and 40 road games while KCAL 9 will carry 16 home games, 33 road and the one exhibition game. Additional games may also be selected by MLB's national rights holders as the season progresses.

"We are pleased to partner with FSN West to provide more Angels baseball games than ever before to fans throughout the metropolitan market," said Tim Mead, Angels vice president of communications. "Local television coverage is an essential vehicle to reach and grow our fan base, and now our fans will have more opportunities to follow the team during what promises to be an exciting and successful season."

Steve Physioc and former Angel Rex Hudler enter their sixth season as partners in the Angels' TV broadcast boost. Physioc begins his 10th year as the Angels' play-by-play commentator on both FSN West and KCAL 9, while Hudler enters his sixth season as the analyst for both networks.  Hudler and Bill Macdonald continue to serve as hosts of "Angels In the Infield," a half-hour pregame show on FSN West.






