
Following is the second in a series of weekly stories on MLB.com examining each Major League club, position-by-position. Each Wednesday until Spring Training camps open, we'll preview a different position. Today: Corner infield.

How good is Dallas McPherson? Well, the Angels are going to find out soon enough, and it will dictate the team's biggest uncertainty regarding corner infielders in 2005.

One month before Spring Training, the Angels are ready to start the season with a rookie at third base for the first time since 1999, when Troy Glaus brought a lot of power potential and promise to the table and hit 29 homers while driving in 79 runs.

McPherson, 24, is the reason the Angels decided to not offer Glaus a contract extension. Glaus, who is coming back from shoulder surgery, bolted for the Arizona Diamondbacks, leaving his former team with a big question mark at the hot corner.

But the Angels don't see it that way.

"We're a team that doesn't believe in stopping a player's progress," general manager Bill Stoneman said. "Dallas doesn't have anything left to prove at the minor league level. He's ready to be a Major Leaguer."

McPherson's minor league stats certainly bear that out. He hit 40 combined homers in 2004, and although he strikes out a lot and has been a bit raw defensively, the Angels saw a lot of the same things in Glaus when he first came up.

















&bull; Catchers: Angels happy with trio
&bull; Corner inf.: All eyes on 3rd
&bull; Middle inf.: Cabrera strong at short
&bull; Outfielders: Finley a solid addition
&bull; Starters: Healthy staff key to 2005
&bull; Bullpen: Angels have faith in K-Rod
&bull; DH and Bench: DH not decided





Glaus developed into a decent glove man and a more-than-decent power hitter, blasting 47 homers in 2000, 41 in 2001 and 30 in 2002 before his last two seasons were curtailed by shoulder problems. Glaus also hit seven homers in the 2002 postseason, including three in the World Series in which he was named Most Valuable Player.

The Angels are expecting much of the same from McPherson, and while they're going to give him a bit of room to grow in 2005, they still expect some pop at the plate, especially after McPherson hit three homers in 40 at-bats with the big club last year.

"We can't afford to not have production from third base," manager Mike Scioscia said. "Dallas is going to be expected to come in and contribute."

If McPherson is a bit slow to take to Major League pitching in 2005, the Angels have capable fill-ins for the hot corner.

Robb Quinlan took to the position last year, earned plenty of at-bats and made the most of them, batting .344 with five homers and 23 RBIs in 160 at-bats. He didn't make an error at third base.

Chone Figgins, who will begin the year at second base in place of injured Adam Kennedy, learned third base on the fly last year and is another option once Kennedy returns, which is expected by May or June.

And Cuban defector Kendry Morales can play the position, too, although Morales, 21, has to be viewed as a wild card that the Angels will find out more about in Spring Training.

First base seems to be more settled, at least for now.

Darin Erstad is a fixture there after a Gold Glove year at the position in his first full-time spin at first base since 1997. Erstad had a bit of an offensive resurgence in 2004 despite missing a month with a severe hamstring strain.

He batted .295 with seven homers, 69 RBIs and 79 runs scored from his usual No. 2 spot in the lineup.

"Ersty was the best defensive first baseman in our league and everyone knows how important he is to our lineup as the No. 2 hitter," Scioscia said. "We don't expect that to change."

If Erstad is injured, however, it could change, and the Angels are confident in their depth at first, as well.

Casey Kotchman, a 22-year-old graduate of Triple-A, is like McPherson in that he doesn't have much to prove in the minors. Kotchman impressed the Angels in his month-long stint with the club last year after being called up from Double-A.

He is viewed as an excellent defender with great plate discipline and the type of gap hitter who could mature into a Todd Helton type.

Quinlan and Morales also are options at first base if McPherson sticks at third.

"Once again, we have a ton of depth and versatility on this club and it'll be tough to find at-bats and playing time for guys," Scioscia said.

"But that's a good problem to have."








