
KANSAS CITY -- Francisco Rodriguez was taking a realistic approach in the days leading up to the All-Star selections. When the news came Sunday that Rodriguez hadn't made the American League All-Star team,
he wasn't disappointed.

"You've got to have the numbers," Rodriguez said. "I only have [29 2/3] innings."

Rodriguez  had converted 15 of 17 save chances through Saturday, but missed some time when he had to go on the disabled list with a right forearm strain.

"I'm not surprised or frustrated," Rodriguez said. "It's not something I was hoping for."

Rodriguez was an All-Star in 2004 and cherished that experience.

"It was a great experience," Rodriguez said. "I look forward to going again. But not this year. It could be next year or two years from now. You've just got to be healthy. That's all I ask for. When I'm healthy, I can reach my goals."


Getting a look: While the Angels had three players selected to the
AL All-Star team, several others received strong consideration, according to manager Mike Scioscia.

"That makes us feel good," Scioscia said. "I know that [Scot] Shields got a lot of consideration. He should feel good about that. We know how important he is to our club."

Garret Anderson said he felt Shields was the Angel player not picked who most deserved to be on the All-Star team. Bartolo Colon and Vladimir Guerrero both said they felt Darin Erstad should have been named to the team.


Dry swings: Outfielder Steve Finley, who has been on the disabled list with a sore shoulder, is making progress.

"He took some dry swings yesterday, so he's getting there," Scioscia said. "In three days, he could be taking some batting practice. But you want to go through the progressions."



Coming up: The Angels return home to open a three-game series against Minnesota on Monday night. Right-hander John Lackey
(6-2, 3.84 ERA), who ranks fourth in the AL in strikeouts, will work the series opener. The Twins will counter with right-hander Carlos Silva
(6-3, 3.55 ERA).







