
New name, same result.

The Orem Owlz, who won last year's Pioneer League Championship Series as the Provo Angels, swept their way to a second straight crown.

Dallas Morris' RBI triple in the top of the ninth inning lifted the visiting Owlz over the Helena Brewers, 3-2, on Thursday night.

After the first two Owlz struck out in the ninth", Hainley Statia walked and Morris followed with his second triple of the night to give the Owlz the lead for good.

"I was just looking for something good to hit," Morris said of the 1-2 slider he hit off reliever Brandon Parillo (0-1). "He'd gotten me on some good pitches the at-bat before, so I wanted to be patient."

The patience paid off as Morris smashed the decisive hit over center fielder Michael Brantley.

Morris, who also tripled in Game 1, finished 3-for-5 while Trumbo and Overstreet each contributed two hits.

"We couldn't have done it without Jose Arredondo," added Morris. "If he hadn't shut them down, I wouldn't have had that opportunity."

Arredondo, the Owlz starter, limited the Brewers to one run on two hits in seven innings. The 21-year-old right-hander, who went 5-0 during the regular season, walked three and fanned eight.

"(Arredondo) was up for the first time over 100 pitches this year," said manager Tom Kotchman. "He was a conversion guy, so no matter what we couldn't let him go another inning."

Reliever Kevin Lynch (1-0) allowed an inherited runner to score before shutting down Helena for the final two innings. In the ninth, he hit Kenneth Holmberg with a pitch to open the frame but escaped by inducing Angel Salome to ground into a double play.

"Our pitching was outstanding and we got some timely hits," said Kotchman, a veteran Minor League manager with more than 1,400 wins. "The kids have been quietly, respectfully confident." 

The Owlz jumped out to a 1-0 lead in the first when Morris ripped a two-out triple and scored on a single by Mark Trumbo.

Trumbo led off the fourth with a single and later scored on a base hit by Colby Overstreet that put Orem on top, 2-0.

The Brewers answered by manufacturing a run in the bottom of the fourth. Ryan Crew walked, stole second, took third on a flyout by Holmberg and scored on a single by Salome, the Pioneer League MVP.

Orem held its slim lead until the eighth, when Mat Gamel's two-out RBI single tied it at 2-2. 






