
ANAHEIM -- Saturday night's Angels game, like many before it, began with a brilliant effort by Bartolo Colon and finished with Troy Percival closing out a narrow win against the heart of his opponent's lineup. But for the first time in his 158 career saves at Angel Stadium, Percival was saving it for the wrong team.

That's understandable, given that this is Percival's first trip back to Anaheim as a Detroit Tiger. It was a little harder, though, for the Angels to accept how Colon lost a game in which he pitched so well.

Most of the credit for Detroit's 2-1 victory must go to 22-year-old Tigers ace Jeremy Bonderman (5-2), who pitched around a mammoth Dallas McPherson solo shot to allow just four hits in eight innings. More credit still must go to the Tigers offense, which did exactly what the situation called for in five consecutive at-bats in the eighth inning.

But in the Angels' minds, at least some of the credit for the Tigers' victory belongs to first-base umpire Darryl Cousins.

After Carlos Pena led off the eighth with a soft single to right, Cousins called a balk on Colon (4-3), advancing Pena to second. It was an innocuous beginning, but the Tigers then played every card in the situational-hitting deck. Pena was sacrificed to third, Nook Logan tied the game with a line single to center, Brandon Inge advanced Logan to third with a hit-and-run, opposite-field single and Ivan Rodriguez hit a sacrifice fly to score Logan with what would prove to be the winning run.

"They executed when they had to," manager Mike Scioscia said. "Pena got on, they sacrificed him over, they put the hit-and-run on and then they got the fly ball."

That they did -- but with Pena standing on first base instead of second, both the Tigers and the Angels would've drawn up significantly different plans for the inning.

It was quite the turn of events, given Cousins might've saved the Angels a run in the fifth, when he ruled that Orlando Cabrera threw out Craig Monroe from deep in the hole (and then ejected Monroe and manager Alan Trammell for arguing the call). The next two Tiger batters singled, so the ruling proved quite significant.

Regardless of how fortuitous that might have been, though, it didn't change the fact that the Angels felt that they lost the lead, and the game, in part because of a phantom balk.

"It did change the complexion of the inning," Colon said through an interpreter. "I don't know what they saw but I don't feel like I balked in that situation. I used the same move three times later."

Colon said he didn't ask Cousins why he made the call -- "at that point of the game, I just want to concentrate on the next pitch" -- but Scioscia did.

"He said he turned his shoulder in," Scioscia said. "That's what Darryl said he saw. Obviously, we didn't see it from our side."

Despite the setback, Colon came back out to pitch the ninth inning, striking out the final two batters he faced for his first complete game of the season. Then, between half-innings, out came two Angels institutions.

On the scoreboard, the rally monkey. And trotting in from the visitor's bullpen to a standing ovation, Troy Percival.

It was a rare confluence of events -- the fans on their feet, simultaneously cheering for a comeback and applauding Percival's 10 years with the Angels. But when home-plate umpire Joe Brinkman signaled the start of the bottom of the ninth, Angels, Tigers and fans alike quickly settled into their appropriate roles. And for Percival, there's nothing more familiar than converting a save opportunity.

Vladimir Guerrero lined a one-out single off an ankle-level pitch, but Chone Figgins, Garret Anderson and Steve Finley all flied out, giving Percival his third save as a Tiger -- and his 158th at Angel Stadium.

"Beating friends isn't any easier or harder than beating people you don't know," Percival said. "When Garret was up, I've known him for 15 years, but he has a job to do and I have a job to do."

Bonderman had a job to do, too, and he could hardly have done it any better. Even with Colon making a 1-0 lead look insurmountable, Bonderman came right after the Angels, throwing 77 of his 110 pitches for strikes and punching out eight hitters. He didn't go to a three-ball count on any of the first 26 hitters he faced.

"Bonderman's got a terrific arm, he's one of the bright young stars in this league," Scioscia said. "We didn't get many good looks at him, and outside of Dallas' home run, we didn't hit many balls hard."

Bonderman said that "everything" was working for him Saturday night, but he still conceded that "[Colon] outpitched me until the eighth inning."

Scioscia couldn't agree more.

"A game like that is what Bart can do," he said. "You can't ask for much more. Just a great effort. Those guys were matching each other pitch for pitch."






