
TEMPE, Fla. -- Recovering from offseason knee surgeries, outfielders Gary Matthews Jr. and Vladimir Guerrero figure to be back in game action for the Angels within the next week.

Matthews, who had surgery in October to repair a patella tendon tear in his left knee, hopes to be in the lineup on Sunday at home when the Angels entertain the Athletics.











"I'm really looking forward to getting out there and playing in a game," said Matthews, entering the third year of his five-year contract. "I want to play. The knee feels good. I think I'm ready to go."

Guerrero, whose arthroscopic surgery on his right knee was performed in early October, cleared another hurdle in his program when he participated in baserunning drills on Thursday.

"I would say we're going to see him in games by the middle of next week," manager Mike Scioscia said of his big bopper. "He should be ready to play the outfield. I don't think there's anything restraining him now. He has to get acclimated with right field. His arm feels good. With some things, you have to get a better idea before he jumps out there, but he's close."

An update on Ervin Santana, experiencing discomfort in his pitching elbow due to a sprained medial collateral ligament, is expected this weekend, Scioscia said.

Closer Brian Fuentes, who bowed out of the second round of the Classic for Team USA after skipping the opening round with family issues, came through a 25-pitch bullpen session on Wednesday, easing concerns about back spasms.

Fuentes said he's back on course and expects to pitch on Saturday against the Cubs in Mesa.

Torii Hunter, who felt what the manager described as "a little pinch in his shoulder when he swung" the bat on Thursday, was given Friday off to give it a rest.

"It's something I get every spring," Hunter said, noting that Opening Day on April 6 is still 24 days away. "I'll be fine. It goes back to my high school football days. It's never bothered me during the season, so I'm not worried about it."

Shortstop Hainley Statia, who played the first two games of the World Baseball Classic for the amazing Netherlands outfit, returned to camp with a minor hamstring strain that will force him out of the second round of Classic games in Miami.

Statia, hitless in four at-bats in the Classic, is a superb defender from Curacao. He's expected to start the season at Double-A Arkansas with veteran Luis Figueroa -- enjoying a torrid spring with the bat -- at Triple-A Salt Lake.

Left off Puerto Rico's Classic roster, Figueroa is trying to show the team it made a mistake with his .643 Cactus League batting average and smooth work with the glove at shortstop.

Also checking back into camp was reliever Rich Thompson, who pitched the final scoreless inning of Team Australia's first-ever Classic win at the expense of Mexico in Mexico City. Mexico recovered to knock out the Aussies and advance to the second round in San Diego.






