
SEATTLE -- It has been a strength of the Angels in recent years and the bullpen is once again doing its share of the heavy lifting for the ballclub.

Entering Wednesday's matinee with the Mariners, Angels relievers have stranded 30 of 31 inherited baserunners and rank fourth among American League bullpens with a 2.49 ERA, a stat they've led for the last three seasons.

Scot Shields attributes their success to an unselfish attitude and an unwillingness to make another pitcher wear their mistakes.

"We take a lot of pride in holding runners out there," Shields said. "We'd much rather give up our own run than someone else's run. But you have to give credit to the catchers, too. They're calling the right pitches."

And then there is the fear factor, something Shields said has no place in the bullpen.

"You can't be scared. You have to go out there with a positive attitude," Shields said. "You've got to bear down and not be afraid to throw your game with guys on base. Even with the go-ahead run on base, we're not afraid to throw inside."

Manager Mike Scioscia cited the bullpen's success with the first batter the relievers face. Shields agreed and said that has to do with their ability to change their approach depending on the situation.

"All of us are able to get ground-ball outs, so if we need the double play, we can do that," Shields said. "But if we need to go after the strikeout, we can do that, too."

Tough decision: Lou Merloni got the news he was dreading Tuesday when he learned he had torn ligaments in his right ankle. The utility infielder was examined by Dr. Phil Kwong in Los Angeles, who diagnosed the injury.

Merloni has two options: surgery or therapy. The problem is whatever he decides, Merloni is likely gone for the year.

"The news was bad and then worse," Scioscia said of Merloni, who sustained the injury Sunday in Minnesota on the same artificial surface that sidelined Troy Glaus for much of last season when he jammed his right shoulder in the turf. "I don't think the two options are very exciting. It is a tough break for Lou."

The Angels are now down two reserve infielders. Maicer Izturis strained the MCL in his left knee and was placed on the 15-day DL, retroactive to April 26. Izturis is still about three weeks away from returning, but Scioscia said he is progressing well and should begin running in the next day or two.

Adam Kennedy has returned to his starter's job at second and David Matranga has been called up to fill a reserve infielder's spot, but the club may look further into the organization if its needs increase. Alberto Callaspo, Erick Aybar and Casey Smith are all possibilities, Scioscia said.

"[The rash of injuries] affects our depth," Scioscia said." Coming out of Spring Training we had a lot of depth up the middle in our organization."

The Angels are holding out hope that Merloni can make it back by the end of the year, but Scioscia said he will be missed.

"Merloni is a special guy because of his experience and what he can bring," Scioscia said.

Not yet ready: Bengie Molina ran the bases Tuesday, but not at full speed and Scioscia said it appears his catcher will need more time. The club had hoped Molina would be available when they host the Tigers in a three-game series May 6.

"That might be a little aggressive," Scioscia said of Molina being recalled from the DL on Friday. "He's picked up his workouts a little bit. We'll have a better idea this weekend."

Molina strained his right quadriceps April 17 in Oakland.

Paul injured: Reserve catcher Josh Paul suffered a bruised right thumb and left Wednesday's game in the sixth inning. X-rays were not taken and he will be re-evaluated Thursday in Anaheim.

Paul walked with one out in the sixth and was hit on the hand by a thrown ball from Mariners shortstop Wilson Valdez while running to second on a fielder's choice by Adam Kennedy.

Bench warmer: Robb Quinlan has gone from starting third baseman to the end of the bench in the span of one month. His play in the field was never highlight-reel material, but the club felt his bat would keep him in the lineup.

Therein lies the problem. In 10 games this season, Quinlan is hitting .138 with just a .167 on-base percentage. Quinlan has appeared in just two games since April 19, but Scioscia said he's not necessarily ticketed for a trip to the Minors.

"There is still a role for Q," Scioscia said. "I'd like to get him more at-bats to get him productive again."

On deck: The Angels will be off Thursday before opening a six-game homestand, beginning Friday with a series against the Tigers. Right-hander Kelvim Escobar will face Detroit left-hander Wilfredo Ledezma. Game time is 7:05 p.m. PT.






