
SURPRISE, Ariz. -- Justin Speier has had a few rocky moments this spring, but the Angels reliever finally has an expression of confidence and, well, relief.

"The last couple of outings," Speier said, "I feel like my old self again. I like where I'm at right now at this point of the spring. You want to start having your command, your velocity and everything, toward the end of Spring Training.

"You want to peak at the right time, as the new season gets here."











Speier had a stretch this spring in which he yielded a run in six consecutive appearances. One of those runs was unearned, but it was clear that he was having trouble producing clean, trouble-free innings.

In his most recent appearance, on Friday at Tucson Electric Park against the Diamondbacks, Speier did, indeed, look different. He was getting ahead of hitters and staying ahead of them, and when his longest stint of the spring -- two innings -- was over, he'd given up no runs on two hits and a walk, striking out two hitters.

"I've gotten a lot of extra work this spring, and it's been good for me," said the 35-year-old veteran of 11 Major League seasons with seven organizations. "I felt like I had to establish my command a little bit, and I'm doing that now."

Speier has appeared in eight of the team's 28 games. Only Kevin Jepsen, with 11, has made more appearances. Speier is carrying a 4.22 ERA, which would be more impressive if not for a pair of home runs surrendered to A's slugger Jack Cust, one breaking the windshield of the SUV belonging to Angels outfielder Reggie Willits.

One thing Speier has discovered in his effort to get back to his "old self" is that he needs to maintain a razor's-edge mentally at all times -- not only in run-saving, game-saving situations.

What's revealing about Speier's 2008 season is that in spite of his unimpressive overall numbers -- he was 2-8 with a 5.03 ERA in 62 appearances -- he did his best work when he entered games with runners aboard, in threatening situations.

Inheriting 32 runners, he allowed only eight to score -- 25 percent. Fellow pitchers applauded his efforts in saving digits on their ERAs as Speier returned to the dugout.

Only Scot Shields, who permitted only three of 18 inherited runners (20 percent) to score, had a higher percentage of saved runs among Angels relievers. Francisco Rodriguez watched seven of 25 inherited runners come home, 39 percent. Jose Arredondo was at 45 percent, Darren Oliver 41 percent.

But Speier was victimized repeatedly by the long ball. His 15 home runs surrendered were the most in his career, and a number of them came in game-turning situations.

The son of Chris Speier, a successful and highly competitive Major League shortstop for 19 seasons, Justin grew up understanding the demands of the game, emotionally as well physically.

"My mentality when I go out there has to be like there are men on base even when there aren't," Speier said. "When my back's against the wall, I make pitches. It's about making pitches when I come into the game, no matter what the situation is. The last few outings, I've done that.

"We're all human, and sometimes we [relax]. We [need] to keep the foot on the throttle regardless of the situation, score, anything like that. That's something I pride myself on, maintaining that on a consistent basis."

Adjustments are a part of life for pitchers. They're constantly trying to come up with new ways to gain an edge, to get an advantage in the ongoing battle with hitters.

Angels pitching coach Mike Butcher has been working with Speier on a few refinements that manager Mike Scioscia believes have paid off recently with better command and improved stuff.

"Butch is working on keeping his hand behind the ball and getting on top of it," Scioscia said. "He was getting flat with it. His velocity has looked good lately. I think Justin seems to feel better out there, and it's showing in his performance."

Replaced by rookie Arredondo in his seventh-inning role near midseason, Speier's struggles in August and September -- he yielded 15 earned runs in 23 1/3 innings -- cost him a spot on the Angels' postseason roster. The veteran was replaced by Jepsen, a rookie.

Speier does not want to let anything like that happen again.






