
ANAHEIM -- With Shea Hillenbrand experiencing tightness in his groin, Reggie Willits was handed his first start of the season on Wednesday afternoon against Texas. The swift, switch-hitting Willits was in right field with scalding-hot Vladimir Guerrero moving into Hillenbrand's DH spot.

For Willits, who didn't see a Major League game in the flesh until he suited up for the Angels last season on April 22 in Oakland, every start is meaningful.
"I feel like I can play at this level," Willits, 25, said. "I know what my role is going to be as the fourth outfielder -- defense, pinch-running, a start now and then. I understand my role, but I'm also pretty confident I can play at this level."
That self-assurance is rooted in his solid performance last year with an Angels club that caught fire when he arrived for the second time in July after a brief exposure to the big time in April.
Willits batted a respectable .267 in 45 at-bats, fashioning a .411 on-base percentage that reflected his growth as an offensive player.
"I think the kind of player I am is similar to a Chone Figgins type," Willits said, taking the injured Figgins' No. 9 spot in the order to supply speed in front of Gary Matthews Jr. and Orlando Cabrera. "Whether I'm in the nine-hole or leading off, my job is to get on base.
"I've always been a patient hitter and gotten my share of walks. Every year I want to have more walks than strikeouts -- and last year was the first time I did it for a full season. I'm not afraid to hit with two strikes; if I'm down 0-2 in the count, I'm still confident I can make good contact."
Willits, like fellow bench player Tommy Murphy, originally was a shortstop before being converted into an outfielder. Willits also caught in high school in Oklahoma, which could come in handy should an emergency arise for manager Mike Scioscia. The club is carrying two receivers, Mike Napoli and Jose Molina.
"I think Reggie showed us last year when he was up with us -- and the last couple of Minor League seasons -- the adjustments he needs to make," Scioscia said, noting Willits struck out 112 times with Class A Rancho Cucamonga in 2004 but improved to only 50 strikeouts with 77 walks at Triple-A Salt Lake last season.
"Early on, he was a kid who was striking out a lot in the Minor Leagues. He's always had the walk in his game; now that he's putting the ball in play, you're seeing some production. He's made huge strides in understanding what he needs to do in the batter's box to become a guy who can contribute offensively.
"He's always been a terrific defensive player, and he's always run the bases very well."

 Lofton fan:  Willits, born in Chickasha, Okla., grew up admiring and emulating Kenny Lofton, who was on the other side in a Texas uniform Wednesday as the Rangers tried to avoid a three-game sweep.
"I watched baseball on TV when I was growing up, and I really liked the way Kenny Lofton played the game," said Willits, a student at the University of Oklahoma when he was drafted by the Angels in the seventh round in 2003.
"The first big-league game I ever saw, I was sitting in the dugout last April in Oakland. I just got called up after Juan Rivera pulled an oblique.
"I made my debut as a pinch-runner in Detroit, but I didn't get my first at-bat until the second time I was called up. I made a start in Kansas City [on July 22] and got a hit my first at-bat. I ended up going 2-for-4 with a walk, a stolen base -- and a game-winning RBI." That came in the 10th inning, Willits clearly having no problem maintaining his energy level.
The start Wednesday was his first in right field. All 11 of Willits' starts last year were in center.
 Born to run:  He isn't as fast as Willits, say, but Hillenbrand loves the Angels' full-tilt style on the basepaths in spite of his misstep, creating groin discomfort, rounding third and scoring in Tuesday night's 8-3 win.
"I take pride in my baserunning," said Hillenbrand, who is listed as day-to-day. "When you're DHing, you're limited in the ways you can contribute.
"I ran a lot this spring; it's a huge part of the game. I spent the majority of my career in the AL East, and that's a slugfest. I love this club's aggressive style on the bases."
In his debut with the Angels on Monday, Hillenbrand twice was put in motion on hit-and-run plays and was caught stealing. He has stolen 16 bases in 27 attempts in his career, but he's the first to point out that's only part of the baserunning story.
"I take pride in breaking up a double play, going from first to third," Hillenbrand said. "I really work hard at that."

 Up next:  The Angels kick off a four-game series against division rival Oakland on Thursday night, with southpaw Joe Saunders getting his first start of the season. He'll face A's right-hander Chad Gaudin in the 7:05 PT game.






