
ANAHEIM -- The courtship of Bud Black continues, and next week he will discuss the managerial opening in Oakland.

The Angels' pitching coach already has one interview under his belt, that being with the Giants as he sat down with team officials there last week. Black has been sought after before as a managerial candidate, but the difference now is he feels ready.

"The timing is right," Black said. "I'm just throwing my hat in the ring."

The A's fired Ken Macha following his team's elimination from the ALCS, and Oakland is also considering Bob Geren, Ron Washington and Orel Hershiser as candidates for the job, according to several published reports.

Black has been the Angels' pitching coach for the past seven seasons, and like long-time bench coach Joe Maddon, who was hired away last year to skipper the Devil Rays, his name has often been included on candidacy lists for a variety of managerial openings.

"It makes your feel good that you have quality people and that is what you strive to do," general manager Bill Stoneman said.  "If he does get the job, we will have to replace him, but we won't speculate on that until if and when it happens."

The Angels elevated Dino Ebel to the Major League staff last season. The Salt Lake manager took over at third base for Ron Roenicke, who moved to the bench to replace Maddon.

One of the candidates for the Angels pitching coach job if it were to open will likely be Charles Nagy, the Angels Triple-A pitching coach. The Bees posted a 4.65 ERA last season, and Nagy has worked with starters Jered Weaver and Joe Saunders.

Out of the pool? The Angels will be looking for a bat to plug into the middle of the lineup next season, but it appears it will not be Alex Rodriguez.

According to the New York Daily News, Yankees general manager Brian Cashman has assured Rodriguez's agent, Scott Boras, that the slugger will not be traded.

"Brian Cashman and I had a discussion, and he made it clear that he has no intention of trading Alex," Boras told the Daily News, "and I told him that Alex Rodriguez has a no-trade clause."

The Angels and the White Sox are two clubs that have been repeatedly linked to the Yankees and Rodriguez in trade rumors. One player that could possibly move in a potential deal is Angels right-hander Ervin Santana, who was included in a number of trade talks last July and has pitched well in Yankee Stadium.

Another Boras client and possible solution for the Angels' center field issues is Andruw Jones, but a report in the Atlanta Journal-Constitution said Jones will be staying put next season. The Braves' center fielder has one year remaining on the six-year, $75 million contract he signed in 2002. Boras said Jones' next deal will dwarf that, the Constitution reported.

The most intriguing player who will be available this offseason could be Daisuke Matsuzaka. The rights to the 26-year-old are expected to be posted by the Seibu Lions next month, at which point each of the 30 Major League teams can bid on the exclusive right to negotiate for Matsuzaka.

The right-hander went 17-5 with a 2.13 ERA and 200 strikeouts with the Lions last season. His agent? Boras.

Stoneman declined to comment on any future negotiations.

Just throw strikes: The Angels found a lefty for their bullpen last offseason, but the acquisition failed to accomplish much as J.C. Romero went 1-2 with a 6.70 ERA in 65 appearances. He also walked 28 with only 31 strikeouts after coming over in a trade with the Twins for Minor League infielder Alexi Casilla.

The Angels have released Romero and will seek bullpen help this offseason but won't necessarily target a left-hander.

"It is all a question of quality and performance and it doesn't matter what arm you throw with," Stoneman said. "We expected that J.C. would have a turnaround in performance, but you really have to look at your team from a performance standpoint."

Better to give: Angels hitting coach Mickey Hatcher and bullpen catcher Steve Soliz visited the Boys and Girls Club of Anaheim on Wednesday. In conjunction with Toshiba, the pair delivered notebook computers to the club's computer lab learning center while also signing autographs.

The event culminated a season-long program in which Toshiba donated a total of 69 computers to the 16 Boys and Girls Clubs throughout Orange County, eclipsing last year's total of 55 computers.






