
SEATTLE -- Orlando Cabrera entered Tuesday with a streak on the line.
 In the last 60 games, the Angels shortstop had reached base safely by a hit, walk or hit by pitch. Cabrera carried the suspense into the sixth inning when he hit a clean RBI single past Adrian Beltre to extend the streak to 61 games.

While there is some uncertainty about where it ranks exactly in streaks of that nature, the Angels believe it has had a positive impact on the club.

"On-base percentage is huge for our club and his ability to get on base during this streak has been remarkable," manager Mike Scioscia said. "It is one thing that is mostly a team-oriented goal. I know that if Orlando had a guy on base and he had a chance to move him over to sacrifice the streak, he would."

The streak is somewhat murky. Elias Sports Bureau has Ted Williams with the Major League record of 84 straight games set in 1949. They also know that Cabrera's streak is the longest since 1960, having passed Barry Bonds' mark of 58 straight games set in 2003. But precisely where Cabrera falls behind Williams is still being researched.

The Angels have been taking advantage of Cabrera's momentum, though, moving him up to third in the batting order.

"If it works, it is long term," Scioscia said. "We've had a lot of lineups throughout the year as we've tried to find some continuity, but if this works then we're going to stick with it."

On-the-job training: Kendry Morales entered Tuesday's game with 17 hits in his last 75 at-bats but has been showing signs of getting out of his slump. He went 3-for-4 with a home run Monday and has hits in three of his last four games.

"Kendry's history has shown that given enough time at any level, there is an adjustment time, but when he makes the adjustments he is there for a long time," Scioscia said. "We have a lot of confidence in him but there is an opportunity for him to play first base right now and step up and do some things."

The Angels have been without a regular first baseman this season as Casey Kotchman has been out for most of the year and players such as Dallas McPherson, Robb Quinlan and even Howie Kendrick have been spot starters at best.

Last season, Morales was slow to warm up after getting promoted to Double-A and again this year it took some time for him to get rolling at Triple-A Salt Lake. The Angels then caught a quick glimpse of what Morales is capable of when he collected eight hits in his first four games with the Angels, including a pair of homers.

"We will stay with him and see how productive he can be," Scioscia said.


Trainer's room: Darin Erstad [sore right ankle] is currently not with the team as he rehabs in Southern California, but Scioscia said he should join the team when the Angels open a four-game series in Oakland on Thursday and begin a running program.

On the farm: Right-hander Matt Hensley (1-0) tossed a scoreless inning and walked one to pick up the win as Salt Lake shut out Sacramento on Monday. It was Hensley's second appearance against the Bees this season. Greg Jones earned his eighth save.

On deck: The Angels will conclude their three-game series with the Mariners at 7:05 p.m. PT on Wednesday. Right-hander Bartolo Colon will face Seattle left-hander Jamie Moyer. Kelvim Escobar will start in Oakland on Thursday.






