
ANAHEIM -- Joel Peralta's journey through professional baseball finally culminated with a trip to the big leagues.

Peralta was called up to the Angels on Monday, when closer Francisco Rodriguez was placed on the 15-day disabled list.

Initially signed by the Athletics as an infielder in 1996, Peralta was signed by the Angels in 1999 after converting to a pitcher while playing amateur ball in his native country, the Dominican Republic.

But aside from feeling close to being called up by the Angels last season before having surgery on a broken finger, Peralta has toiled in the Minors.

Peralta admitted to feeling nervous Monday as a card-carrying member of a Major League clubhouse, but added he is used to the tension. And though he earned seven saves in Triple-A Salt Lake this season, Peralta will draw mostly middle relief duty.

"I don't expect to close games here," Peralta said, who posted a 4-1 mark and a 2.60 ERA with the Stingers. "Whenever they give me the ball, I'll try and do my best."

Sling free: Vladimir Guerrero was not wearing a sling to immobilize his injured left shoulder and did some light jogging before batting practice Monday.

The right fielder will have an MRI on Tuesday to assess the full extent of the partially dislocated left shoulder he sustained while sliding headfirst into home at Dodger Stadium on Friday. Guerrero said Sunday that he's confident he'll be ready in two weeks, while manager Mike Scioscia is also encouraged by what he sees.

"I felt a lot better on how he felt a day later and how he's progressed," Scioscia said. "I'm waiting to hear the tests are negative and I'm confident they will be, but you never know until you get the results."

Gregg sent down: The Angels optioned right-handed reliever Kevin Gregg to Salt Lake and called up right-hander Chris Bootcheck after Monday's 4-0 win over the White Sox. The club is hoping it is a short-term situation and look for him to contribute further this season.  "Kevin is at a point where he needs to fix some pitches," Scioscia said. "Right now it isn't doing him any good to bang his head against the wall and try to figure some things out."  Gregg is 1-1 with a 7.77 ERA in 10 appearances this season, two of which were starts. 
Lineup: Orlando Cabrera was dropped to the eight-hole Monday with Bengie Molina moving up to the six-hole. Garret Anderson batted third as the DH with Steve Finley getting the call as the cleanup hitter.

On deck: The Angels will continue their four-game series with the White Sox at 7:05 p.m. PT on Tuesday. Right-hander Bartolo Colon will face Chicago left-hander Mark Buehrle.






