
ANAHEIM -- Ever since he's been an Angel, Vladimir Guerrero has always been there for his club when the pennant race heats up.

That includes his torrid month of September in 2004 when the right fielder clinched the American League MVP Award by cracking 10 home runs and hitting .371. Guerrero's career average of .352 in September after two at-bats Sunday is his best mark of any month as an Angel.

"It would be a big boost for us if Vlad can get as hot as he has for the last couple years towards the end of the season," manager Mike Scioscia said. "That would dramatically help our chances."

While his teammates have struggled at times during his Angels tenure, Guerrero has always been there. He's been the offensive force behind a club that's been desperate for production.

The seven-time All Star has a hit in 25 of his past 26 games and is batting .377 since July 1. It's no coincidence that the Angels have been the second-best team in the Majors since that date.

Most impressive about Guerrero's late-season surges is that he doesn't let the burden of being sometimes the lone threat at the plate get to him.

"That's the way he goes about it, he wants to be the guy;, he wants to go up there and square the ball up and help his team win," Scioscia said. "That's the way he goes about his business."

Guerrero has been swinging at the first pitch of his at-bats more than usual lately, but Scioscia dismissed that as a cause for concern. The manager knows that's what he's come to expect from his right fielder.

"He's as aggressive a player that I've ever been around," Scioscia said.

Defensive woes: Injuries have forced the Angels to mix and match players on defense. The club lately has had a shortstop playing third base, a middle infielder playing center field and a rookie starting at first, a position he's never player before.

As a result, the club has made an American League-high 109 errors and its 78 unearned runs allowed are the most in the Majors.

"We've lost games or series just because of the amount of unearned runs we've given up," Scioscia said. "It's been painful."

During their playoff seasons, the Angels have scooted by with a less-than-average offense being supported by stellar pitching and sturdy defense. This year their pitching has been among the best in the league, but the defense hasn't been there.

Scioscia puts much of the blame on his players taking on unfamiliar roles in the field.

"It's been the whole team defense of guys getting used to playing next to each other, it hasn't just one guy," he said. "It's been everything from making plays to the range we've exhibited."

Even though more experienced corner infielders Kendry Morales and Dallas McPherson are set to arrive on Monday, Scioscia said he won't juggle his everyday lineup to get their gloves on the field.

"These guys got us back in the race and we feel that those guys can get us over the hump if we can continue to do the things we need to do here," he said.

Hearing set: Scioscia said that Major League Baseball will review reliever Brendan Donnelly's appeal of his four-game suspension on Friday in Arlington.

Donnelly is hoping to reduce the penalty he received for hitting Rangers rookie Freddy Guzman with a pitch last month in a game marred by a bench-clearing incident.

The timing of the appeal couldn't be better for the Angels. Whether or not the suspension is reduced, Donnelly will be available in the bullpen when the Halos travel to Oakland for a three-game series beginning on Sept. 22.

Quick hits: With 40,506 in attendance for Sunday's game against the Blue Jays, the Angels passed 3 million in attendance for the fourth straight year. The club passed the mark in 71 games, the fastest in club history. ... Entering Sunday, the Angels' staff had a 2.47 ERA in September, tops in the American League.

On the farm: Triple-A Salt Lake was eliminated from the postseason on Saturday, dropping Game 4 of its Pacific Coast League series with Tucson, 10-8. Left-hander Dan Davidson allowed seven runs in 1 1/3 innings, which ultimately put the Bees in a 10-0 hole in the second inning. Catcher Ryan Budde hit a three-run home run and Morales hit a solo shot as part of an eight-run rally that just fell short. ... The second game of rookie level Orem's best-of-three Pioneer League South Divisional playoff against Idaho Falls was rained out. The Owlz, down by a game in the series, must win twice on Sunday to advance.

Up next: The Angels face a Wild Card hopeful in the White Sox for three games beginning on Monday. John Lackey will start against Jose Contreras at 7:05 p.m. PT at Angel Stadium.






