
OAKLAND -- John Lackey was the toast of July, and then he felt like toast in August.

After winning Pitcher of the Month honors with a 5-1 record and a 2.08 ERA in six July starts, Lackey fell to a 1-3 mark and a 6.55 ERA in six starts in August.

"You can't pitch like I did in July all season," Lackey said. "As long as the season is, I just have to keep going out there and try and stay as consistent as I can."

Lackey will get a chance to give his second half a lift when he takes the mound against the A's on Saturday afternoon and barring a shift in the rotation, he will conclude his regular season when he faces the A's on Thursday in Anaheim.

The right-hander has two previous starts against the A's this season, and they've been fairly indicative of his year. Lackey tossed a one-hit shutout in Oakland on July 7, when he allowed a leadoff double to Mark Kotsay and then retired 27 straight batters.

But on May 2 in Anaheim, Lackey exchanged words with Jason Kendall when the A's catcher was at the plate, which turned into a bench-clearing brawl. Lackey took the loss as the Angels dropped a 10-3 decision.

The Angels have clinched the American League West Division the last two seasons on the A's home field, and a few Oakland players have said they would like to return the favor. Entering Friday's series opener, the A's had a magic number of four, which means they could clinch on Saturday.

Lackey said there is plenty of motivation every time he starts but will gain a little extra against the A's.

"I know one thing," Lackey said. "I definitely don't want them doing it on my day."

Left out: The Angels faced left-hander Barry Zito on Friday night, but Tim Salmon was not in the starting lineup. Salmon started against one of two lefties in Kansas City and went 0-for-2 with a walk and a strikeout.

Angels manager Mike Scioscia said he wanted to keep Chone Figgins (who is batting .194 against Zito) and Juan Rivera (.063) in the lineup. Salmon is 5-for-43 with one homer in his career against the A's lefty.

Rivera has been bothered by a sore left hand and went 1-for-7 against the Royals and is hitting .200 in his last 10 games. But four of his 22 homers this season are against the A's.

"We've tried to play though some injuries where there is risk, but there are some residual affects in his swing," Scioscia said. "Sometimes its takes one hit to fall in to get things going. Figgy has had a couple of good games against Zito, and we're hoping Juan will come together this last week."

Respect: The last four AL West titles have been won by either the A's or Angels, and this season will make it five straight.

The two clubs have developed a not-so-quiet rivalry, and the A's have put together another strong second half. The A's are 33-13 over August and September.

"The A's are on a terrific run. They've had some bumps and bruises, but they've held up their end of the bargain to be here at this point of the season," Scioscia said. "We stubbed our toe early and fell 11 games under .500, but the A's have played remarkable baseball."

No holds: Facing a deficit and just a handful of games, the Angels can ill afford any more losses, and Scioscia said as long as they're alive, he'll manage accordingly.

"There is nothing really to save guys for at this point in the season," Scioscia said. "Our challenge is very clear. We need to get on a roll, and we need to get on a roll soon. But certainly we have to do everything to win [Friday's] game and go on to [Saturday] and do everything to win [Saturday's] game. [Friday] is certainly crucial."

Numbers: The Angels have recorded their third straight winning season for the first time in franchise history. ... With 30 home runs this season, Vladimir Guerrero joins Salmon (1995-97) and Troy Glaus (2000-02) as the third Angels hitter to reach that plateau in three consecutive seasons. It's also the eighth out of the last nine seasons that Guerrero has hit at least 30 homers.

On deck: The Angels will face the A's in the second game of their three-game series at 1:05 p.m. PT on Saturday at McAfee Coliseum with Lackey set to face Oakland right-hander Joe Blanton. Ervin Santana will start against the A's on Sunday.






