
TEMPE, Ariz. -- Early Christmas morning, Jody Kendrick presented hubby Howard with a six-pound, 14-ounce package that will be impossible to match for sheer impact in holidays to come.

Owen Howard Kendrick decided it was time to come meet his parents.











"He was born two weeks early," Kendrick, the Angels' gifted young second baseman, said of his first child. "He was due on January 7, a day after our anniversary.

"We didn't really want him to come on Christmas, but God decided it was time. We were ecstatic. Jody and the baby are both doing great. We're blessed."

Fatherhood changes every man in some manner, and Kendrick, a native Floridian now calling Phoenix home, is no different.

At 25, he embraces his new life as a dad with a profound sense of responsibility rooted in his childhood in Jacksonville, where he was raised primarily by his grandmother, Ruth Woods.

"It makes me proud to know I'm going to be in my son's life," Kendrick said. "I never had my dad in mine. I've never met him. He lives in Ohio. He's also Howard, but everyone calls him Kenny. I'm very open if we ever meet.

"I had two older sisters, and it was a military family. My grandmother raised all three of us. I'm actually grateful that we were raised in a stable home. I graduated from high school with a lot of the kids I went to grammar school with, and that wouldn't have happened in a military family with all the moving around.

"Our grandmother taught us to be respectful. She instilled a lot of discipline and hard work in us; that's one of the reasons why I'm here. She passed away in '06 with cancer. Basically, I'm her."

Those nurturing instincts he acquired from his grandmother already are evident at home.

When he wasn't working out after his magical Christmas at the "Pro Advantage Training" facility in Tempe -- absorbing information and performing extensive agility and weight-training workouts after injuries extracted chunks of his past two seasons -- Kendrick was home giving Jody a break, baby Howard in his arms.

"He's a stubborn little fella, already, at 2 months," Kendrick said, grinning. "He'll lay there and put his feet between my legs and kick until he gets in the position he wants to be in, and then he'll fall asleep. It's funny. He'll fight it, and then right at 12:30 every night, he's asleep. He'll wake up now and then, but he's pretty good.

"It's amazing, the whole process. Being in his life every day, being something constant, that's very important to me. I want to let him know he has that security. And I want to give him the same values my grandmother instilled in myself and my sisters."

A 10th-round pick in the 2002 First-Year Player Draft as one of scout Tom Kotchman's hidden Florida gems, Kendrick took flight with Kotchman as his rookie ball manager at Provo in 2003, hitting .368.

The hits just kept coming -- .367 at Class A Cedar Rapids in 2005, .384 at high Class A Rancho Cucamonga and .342 at Double-A Arkansas in '06, then .369 at Triple-A Salt Lake in '07, leading to his promotion to Anaheim.

Kendrick appeared in 72 games with the Angels that season, batting .285 while adapting to a new position, first base. With Adam Kennedy's departure, Kendrick moved in at second in 2007, hitting .322 in 88 games, and he batted .306 last year in 92 games.

"We've had some incredibly hard workers in our camp," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said, "and Howard is one of them. He's come a long way as a player, especially on the defensive side, and we're looking for him to continue to grow and evolve."

The one hurdle left standing for Kendrick involves durability. Two separate left hand fractures cost him roughly half of the '07 season, and left hamstring strains in April and August cut his '08 season in half, leaving him with 340 at-bats.

"We're really looking forward to seeing what Howie can do with 550, 600 at-bats," Scioscia said.

So is Kendrick, who struggled (2-for-17) in the American League Division Series against Boston after returning from the second hamstring strain to get only 15 at-bats in September.

"I put a lot of pressure on myself," Kendrick said. "I could have done a lot better. But I'm still learning things, every day, and I'll keep working hard and, hopefully, get better. That's what got me here: working hard."

A .306 Major League hitter with only 163 strikeouts in 945 career at-bats, Kendrick clearly wasn't himself against the Red Sox, striking out seven times.

"We all have our problems at the plate at times," Torii Hunter said. "Howie's just came at a bad time. He just needs to stay on the field. He's a big-time talent."

Kendrick refers to Hunter as a "big-brother" figure and vows to hang close to the center fielder this season.

At Pro Advantage, under the guidance of former Diamondbacks and Brewers strength and conditioning coach Keith Wilson, Kendrick became something of an authority on hamstrings and what he needs to do to keep them sound.

"You need to stay on it -- you can't take anything for granted," Kendrick said. "I want to eliminate every option I can to getting hurt.

"Torii talks to me every day, and I'm going to follow him around, be his shadow. I'm going to work with Torii every day before games, stretching with him, doing his routine. He knows how to keep himself healthy."

Fatherhood having brought new meaning to his life, Kendrick clearly is dedicated to making 2009 special.






