
ANAHEIM -- There are a few absolutes in this world.

Death and taxes are well noted but add one-run games if the A's and Angels are involved.

The two clubs squared off in their series finale on Wednesday and at the close of business, just one run was the difference and it was the Angels who drew the losing end of a 3-2 decision.

It was the 17th one-run game in the last 33 between the Angels and A's, while the A's took a 46-44 advantage in games between the two teams since 2002.

But to add another wrinkle to the rivalry, a bit of contention can be included, and it occurred during another incident at the plate when Jay Payton was hit on the hand by a pitch from reliever Scot Shields in the eighth inning.

Payton reacted in obvious pain before throwing his helmet to the ground, taking a few steps up the first-base line and then appearing as if he wanted to charge the mound. But A's manager Ken Macha and Oakland's training staff were on hand to restrain the A's right fielder and play resumed after a delay of a few minutes.

There was a bit of posturing by both sides and it brought to mind three months earlier to the day on this same field and also during an afternoon get-away day when Jason Kendall charged the mound and tackled John Lackey after the two exchanged words following an inside pitch.

In that game, Mark Ellis was hit twice and Robb Quinlan was hit in the ninth by A's reliever Chad Gaudin, which added fuel to the rivalry.

But the just-concluded series provided no indication of any bad blood in the first two games and Shields said Wednesday's incident was merely about a pitch that got away.

"There was no intent," Shields said. "If you look at the whole inning, my fastball was up and in. They had just taken the lead. It's a one-run game and I'm not going to try and do any further damage."

Payton's reaction was strong and while he appeared on a couple of occasions that he wanted to charge the mound, he said it was more about frustration.

"I've talked to Shields a few times and he's a good guy," Payton said, adding that he knew Shields was trying to pitch inside. "The anger was more toward the fact that I thought my hand was broken."

Despite recent history, the Angels were caught by surprise.

"I think the fact there was not intent, his reaction was a bit extreme," manager Mike Scioscia said. "We don't play that type of baseball, the game of retaliation. Scot is trying to get the batter out and Payton is diving to get a ball on the outside corner and he got hit."

Payton was taken for X-rays after the game but results were not available.

Beyond having to deal with the anger of an opposing player, Shields has had a rough couple of outings in the past few days. The right-hander tossed a scoreless inning Tuesday night, but in his previous appearance, he allowed three runs in two-thirds of an inning in Boston for a blown save that brought an end to Jered Weaver's chance at an 8-0 start to his career.

On Wednesday, it was a command issue for Shields, who had trouble with his fastball and walked Ellis to lead off the inning. Kendall then singled and Mark Kotsay followed with a tiebreaking RBI single to right.

The hit was the difference in the game, which Shields said is a greater indicator of the rivalry.

"Both teams have a lot of respect for each other. Most are hard-fought games and just a couple of times it has gotten away," Shields said. "But besides that, it is good baseball. We just want to go out and play good baseball and hopefully they feel the same way."

The score was tight but play was a little sloppy as the Angels committed three errors. None of the errors scored but a mental lapse in the fifth by Howie Kendrick allowed the A's to take their second lead of the game.

Marco Scutaro doubled to lead off the fifth and scored from second on a third strike/wild pitch by Kelvim Escobar. With Ellis at the plate, the ball got away from catcher Jose Molina, who retrieved the ball near the warning track behind the plate and fired to first to get Ellis by a step. Scutaro never stopped running and Kendrick hesitated before throwing home and the A's shortstop scored standing up.

Kendrick has been playing out of position as the Angels spot him at first to get his bat in the lineup, but Scioscia said the play was less about skills and more about awareness.

"Where he lost it was looking for the call from the ump instead of playing baseball," Scioscia said.

The A's scored their first run on Frank Thomas' sac fly in the top of the first inning and the Angels tied the score in the fourth when Juan Rivera plated Orlando Cabrera with a sac fly. After Scutaro's dash home in the top of the fifth, the Angels knotted the score in the bottom half when Quinlan singled and scored on Kendrick's two-out RBI single.

The Angels went 2-for-7 with runners in scoring position and had a chance to take the lead in the sixth after back-to-back one-out singles by Garret Anderson and Rivera put runners on the corners. But Anderson was thrown out at the plate on a ground ball by Adam Kennedy. Pinch-hitter Maicer Izturis grounded sharply to first, but Nick Swisher snared the ball just past the bag to end the inning.

"We had our chances," Scioscia said. "In this series, we didn't do what we were supposed to do on the offensive end."






