
BALTIMORE -- On the surface and on paper, Jered Weaver isn't having a sophomore season close to his breakout rookie year, when he won his first nine decisions with the Angels and finished 11-2 with a 2.56 ERA in 19 starts.
Scratch beyond the surface, however, and his 6-4 record and 3.55 ERA in 13 starts this season come into sharp focus as highly impressive.
From Spring Training on, the 24-year-old right-hander with the slender frame and unmistakable delivery has pitched through assorted ailments, relying on his head as much as his arm to retire hitters. 
"I'm still not quite right," Weaver said, referring to back and shoulder ailments that have hindered him intermittently for more than a month after he conquered biceps tendinitis in the spring.
"Obviously, I've had some bumps and bruises along the way, but I've been able to pitch the best I can for the most part."
Manager Mike Scioscia, who always guards his starting pitchers the way a Brinks driver protects his cargo, applauds Weaver's multiple talents, which do not include a world-class heater.
"You look at last year, the number you'd look at with Jered's velocity was 89, 90," Scioscia said. "The last time out, he was 88, 87. It wasn't his A-stuff, but it was close.
"If you just grade his velocity -- his scouting report on paper -- his stuff doesn't jump out at you. Then you look at the whole package -- command, change of speeds, ability to get his stuff past hitters' weaknesses -- it shows why he's had success his whole life."
In other words, the kid is a pitcher, not a thrower. He traces his development to a number of things -- having big brother Jeff (now with Seattle) showing the way, and learning from veteran staff members such as John Lackey, Kelvim Escobar and Bartolo Colon.
He also pinpoints a stint with Team USA in the Pan American Games following his sophomore year at Long Beach State in the 2005 Olympic qualifying tournament as a turning point.
"I was throwing 86 miles an hour, and I had like 56 scoreless innings," Weaver said. "I had a little tendinitis in my elbow, and I was able to get people out without my best stuff.
"We played Japan, Mexico, good teams. Those were big games. Whenever I'm in doubt, I can just look back on that experience where I didn't have my best stuff and got it done. It gives me that confidence level I need.
"Right now," he concluded through a big smile, "I'm just trying to stay afloat."

Izturis, Anderson, Speier close: Scioscia had encouraging reports on Sunday for three members of the troupe hoping to make it back to the Angels' 25-man roster by the July 9 All-Star break.
Maicer Izturis (tight hamstring, oblique) should join the club on Tuesday in Texas, while Garret Anderson (right hip flexor) and Justin Speier (intestinal infection) might need a few more days than the versatile infielder.
Izturis scored twice with a single and walk for Class A Rancho California on Saturday in a 9-8 loss to Inland Empire. Anderson had an RBI single in three at-bats as the designated hitter. Speier got four outs in relief, walking one hitter and striking out one.
"Izzy should definitely be ready Tuesday," Scioscia said. "We'll evaluate Garret after today's game. Depending on how his leg feels and his strength, we'll consider him for Tuesday also.
"It doesn't matter if you have 100 at-bats or 10, there's going to be an adjustment from Minor League pitching to Major League pitching. With Garret, it would benefit him to see some Major League pitching as soon as possible, if he's healthy -- so after the All-Star break we're ready to fire.
"Speier is close. I think he feels 100 percent, but there's an adjustment. He needs to show he can bounce back, maintain his stamina. He needs at least one more game."

 Comeback kids: Seven of the Angels' last 10 wins have been the result of coming from behind, including six rallies in the sixth inning and later. Among their 50 wins in their first 81 games, 18 were of the comeback variety.
"That says a lot about the character of this team," center fielder Gary Matthews Jr. said. "These guys are competitive, and they know how to play the game the right way. That's part of it, coming back in the late innings. It's something you can really build on and carry you through a season."

 Willits sits: Scioscia gave Rookie of the Year candidate Reggie Willits another day to recover from knee and shoulder ailments suffered in a collision with the Angel Stadium wall on Wednesday. Willits is expected to be in the lineup when the Angels open a three-game series in Texas on Tuesday.

 Up next: Off on Monday, the Angels send Ervin Santana (5-8, 5.27 ERA) against the Rangers' Kevin Millwood (4-7, 7.06) on Tuesday night at 5:35 p.m. PT.






