
ANAHEIM -- The surprising Royals are doing it the old-fashioned way, with pitching, defense, timely hitting and more pitching.

Showing why they have the best team ERA (3.02) in the Major Leagues, with a bullpen that has been dominant, the Royals halted the Angels' three-game winning streak with a 3-2 decision on Wednesday night in front of 41,336 at Angel Stadium.

Vladimir Guerrero departed in the top of the ninth inning after he sustained a bruised right index finger while batting in the seventh. He will be evaluated on Thursday, but manager Mike Scioscia said it did not appear to be anything that would sideline the big slugger.

"A little bruise," Scioscia called it. "Pine tar got stuck on the bat when he swung it, his first swing in his last at-bat. He strained his finger a little bit. We'll evaluate and see how it is tomorrow. It looks like a little tweak."

The Royals managed to contain Guerrero, keeping him in the infield in four at-bats. In the fifth and seventh innings he had men in scoring position in front of him, but infield outs frustrated him.

"Away, away," Royals catcher Miguel Olivo said of the approach to Guerrero, having guided Gil Meche (1-2) and four lights-out relievers to the finish line. "We only threw him inside twice, I think. You have to be careful with a guy like that, but our pitchers made good pitches to him.

"We're playing good, smart baseball -- and our pitchers are doing a great job."

Meche got the upper hand in a duel with Jered Weaver (1-3) after the Royals surged to a 3-0 lead after two innings on seven hits and one costly error -- by Weaver, making the second-inning run unearned.

Joey Gathright singled with two outs in the second, stole second and scored when Weaver couldn't handle Casey Kotchman's throw after the first baseman had robbed Mark Grudzielanek of a hit with a diving stab. Weaver's error made the run unearned.

"I make that play nine ... no, 10 times out of 10 times," Weaver said. "I was just looking at the bag a little too quick, and the ball tipped off my glove. One of the things I strive for is to make the plays, and that was one of those glitches. I was trying to get a feel for where the bag was and took my eyes off it a little too early."

Weaver found his poise and command and kept the Royals scoreless from the third through the sixth.

"I thought with three runs in, I'd try to keep us in the ballgame, extend it," he said. "After the second, I was able to settle down. Take the bad with the good, I guess."

He departed after six innings trailing by a run the Angels could not manufacture against Meche and a bullpen whose 2.31 ERA is the Majors' best.

"Those guys all have good arms, and they're putting the ball where it's supposed to be," Olivo said of Ramon Ramirez, Jimmy Gobble, Leo Nunez and Joakim Soria. "They're all a little different, and they all have great stuff."

The foursome shut down the Angels over the last three innings to maintain an amazing run of relief. The four have combined for 21 scoreless innings, yielding just eight hits and three walks while striking out 28 hitters.

"Their bullpen's doing a terrific job," Scioscia said. "We had some opportunities, but we couldn't get the big hit we needed."

The Angels cut into the three-run deficit in the fourth. Garret Anderson singled with two outs, moved to third on Torii Hunter's gap double, and both scored when Kotchman lashed a two-strike single to left.

But the Angels left two men stranded in the fifth, sixth and seventh innings, and then they went in order in the eighth and ninth against Nunez and Soria, whose save was his fifth.

The Angels also got quality relief, from Darren O'Day (two scoreless innings) and right-hander Alex Serrano, who pitched a scoreless ninth inning, yielding one hit and striking out a man, in his Major League debut.

Weaver was both lucky and unlucky in holding the Royals to two runs in the first on five singles. He picked off Gathright after his bunt single leading off, but Billy Butler and Alex Gordon came through with RBI singles.

"They had a couple of seeing-eye hits," Weaver said. "They caught me off guard early."

The Angels could have used a few of those hits late, but the Royals' fearsome foursome at the back end of the bullpen slammed the door.






