
TEMPE, Ariz. -- The best news in the first week of Angels camp continues to be Kelvim Escobar and his recovery from labrum surgery.

The veteran right-hander shouldered past two significant hurdles on Friday and Saturday, throwing comfortably from a mound and waking without pain the following morning.











"I was worried about how I was going to feel today," Escobar told MLB.com on Saturday afternoon, "and I felt great. I had good range of motion and no problems at all when I went out to do my long toss today. That was big, very important. You usually find out the next day where you are, and I'm really excited.

"For throwing on a mound for the first time, it felt normal. I think my velocity is going to be the same. Doctors were saying I might lose some velocity, but it feels the same coming out of my hand. I don't feel like I'm pushing the ball. It has normal action and good life, and it's coming out of my hand good."

Bullpen catcher Steve Soliz, on the receiving end of 25 Escobar fastballs from about 55 feet, brought encouraging news to the man who missed all of the 2008 season after going 18-7 in '07 as one of the American League's premier starters.

"Soliz told me, 'You look good -- the ball is coming out good, with good life,'" Escobar said. "That's how I felt, like normal. That's why I feel so good."

Originally ticketed to rejoin the pitching staff around midseason, Escobar is forcing a reevaluation of that timetable with his remarkably swift progression from rehab to long toss to throwing comfortably from a mound.

"Escobar threw off the mound [Friday] with the catcher up a bit -- probably 55 feet -- and it was outstanding," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "He turned it loose. Tomorrow he'll repeat that after long toss today.

"He's certainly passing some of the early hurdles. We're keeping our fingers crossed that he keeps maintaining his progress and should be ready to go in the earlier part of the window [set] when he had the surgery."

Escobar, who will be 33 on April 11, feels his offseason workout regimen and an improved diet have helped him in his swift recovery.

"My whole career, I've been a hard-working guy," he said. "I stay in shape. Also, I've changed my eating routine. I'm staying away from fried food, stuff that's not good for me, and eat healthy."

Escobar has a personal chef from Venezuela preparing meals for him.

"I only go to a restaurant when I want to," he said. "I get what I need at home from my chef."

Sitting out an entire season was "very tough for me, very frustrating," Escobar said. "I actually thought about retiring after hearing what the doctors said. It got me all crazy. But a lot of friends helped me stay positive, and I kept up all my workouts.

"I also got a Facebook page on the Internet, and fans were encouraging me, making me feel good. It's amazing, really. I'd go there every day, and they'd be telling me to hang with it, it was going to work out. That really helped me mentally.

"I was on the Internet every day, reading MLB.com every day. There's a lot of good stuff there -- and not just on the Angels. All over baseball, great information every day."

Grinning, Escobar rotated his right shoulder and headed off to the showers, a very good day -- two very good ones -- in his rear-view mirror.






