
BALTIMORE -- The Angels cannot be accused of being a patient team.

Contrary to the recent trend of clubs that work counts, take pitches and get walks, the Angels would rather swing the bat and get after it.

"We've always been a team that puts the ball in play and puts pressure on the other team," Darin Erstad said.

Entering Thursday, the Angels were eighth overall in the American League in walks, but first in intentional walks. The Angels also rank 10th in the league in on-base percentage, and some feel that may prove to be a weakness come postseason.

Orlando Cabrera finished last season with the World Series champion Boston Red Sox, who tied the Angels for the top team batting average a year ago (.282), but led the AL in OBP at .360, helped in large part by the second-most walks last season. The Red Sox lead the league again in on-base percentage this season.

"We don't do that. Other teams walk; here we swing because we want RBIs," Cabrera said. "It seems we don't trust the guys behind us to do the job. That's important in the playoffs. [Opponents] will see what your weaknesses are, and they'll work that the whole time."

The Angels were swept in the first round of the playoffs last season by the Red Sox, and are on a collision course to face them again this season in the first round.

But manager Mike Scioscia prefers an aggressive approach and feels that the stance is justified by the fact that the Angels lead the AL in hitting with runners in scoring position. As long as they are getting on base, moving runners over and going from first to third on base hits, he'll live with a club that is less patient at the plate.

"Our team, as a group, is not a high-walk team," Scioscia said. "But we're doing very well with runners in scoring position. I think sometimes to get a walk, the pitcher has to be cooperative. As the season has gone on our on-base percentage has improved."

The Angels are second to the Red Sox in OBP and fourth in OPS (on-base percentage plus slugging percentage) with runners in scoring position this season.

Out in left field: Garret Anderson returned to the outfield in Thursday's series finale with the Orioles for the first time since Aug. 9. Anderson has been plagued by a lower back strain and patellar tendinitis in his left knee, and had his first action Tuesday after an eight-game absence.

But the 33-year-old showed he was feeling better in the fifth inning of Wednesday's 3-1 win by tagging up from second on Juan Rivera's fly ball to right, taking third. He then scored on a single by Robb Quinlan.

"He's been running very well," Scioscia said. "I think he is confident of his back and where his knees are. I know he is more comfortable playing the outfield than DH-ing. We'll probably go light on him in Tampa because of the turf."

Steve Finley and Casey Kotchman also returned after sitting out the last two games, with Finley in center field and Kotchman at DH. Chone Figgins moved to third base.

On the farm: Double-A affiliate Arkansas had a big game Wednesday with 24 hits in a 15-7 win over Wichita. Kendry Morales went 5-for-5 with a double, homer and six RBIs while shortstop Erick Aybar was 5-for-6 with a double, triple and an RBI. Right-hander Jered Weaver (3-1) picked up the win by allowing just four hits over six scoreless innings.

While all remain high prospects and the Angels see value in elevating a player in September for a taste of the big leagues, none appears imminent for a call up.

"You want to get guys that will help fill a need -- whether it is depth or arms -- if a guy goes down in a few weeks," Scioscia said.

In the Arizona League, Trevor Bell started his second game for the Rookie level Angels on Wednesday and gave up three hits with two walks and two strikeouts. Over four innings, Bell has yet to allow a run.

On deck: The Angels head to Florida where they will begin a three-game series with the Tampa Bay Devil Rays on Friday at 4:15 p.m. PT. Right-hander Ervin Santana (7-5, 4.41 ERA) will face Rays left-hander Casey Fossum (7-10, 4.44 ERA).






