
ANAHEIM -- The Angels worked right off the introduction in the playbook Monday night.

Their starter reeled off seven strong innings. The offense played the situational game and scored all of its runs with two-out hits. And the bullpen, the unit with the lowest ERA in the Majors this decade, tossed two scoreless frames.

Simple game. Easy game. The Angels made it look that way with a 5-2 victory over the Rangers to open the three-game series and extend their winning streak over their division rivals to seven games.

"Offensively, we got some situational hitting and some two-out hits that were important," manager Mike Scioscia said. "We played the type of game that we need to."

Underscoring the current hold the Angels have over Texas was a bloop RBI single to right-center by Vladimir Guerrero in the second inning. The right fielder's single extended his hitting streak against the Rangers to 37 games, every contest he has played against the club in his career.

Guerrero added a broken-bat single in the seventh as the Angels won for the 14th time in their last 17 games against the Rangers.

An amazing feat indeed, but his teammates have come to believe Guerrero can do just about whatever he wants with a bat.

"A lot of other guys, I might be surprised, but not him," John Lackey said. "That guy can hit anything."

Lackey returned to form with seven strong innings Monday. On the heels of signing a contract extension worth $17.01 million last week, Lackey struggled in his first start of the season when he allowed five runs in a loss to the Mariners.

But against the Rangers, Lackey located his fastball and kept hitters off balance by changing speeds. His lone blemish was on an 0-1 pitch to Phil Nevin in the top of the first, but the pitch was not a mistake. The Rangers' designated hitter hammered the low fastball to the opposite field for a two-out, two-run homer.

"You have to tip your hat there," Lackey said. "I thought it was a good pitch, and he went down and got it."

Aside from that, Lackey (1-1) allowed just three other hits, all singles, and walked one to earn his first victory of the year. Lackey also struck out eight.

"He was effective, a quality pitcher for them, and that is one of their strengths, along with [Scot] Shields and [Francisco] Rodriguez," Rangers manager Buck Showalter said. "We've seen that formula before."

Lackey said the biggest difference between Monday and last Tuesday, when he lost to the Mariners, was staying ahead of the hitters and staying within the game plan.

"My stuff was the same," Lackey said. "I just made better decisions."

Lackey departed after throwing 98 pitches. Scioscia said he considered sending his starter out for the eighth but felt there was little purpose with his bullpen fresh. Shields and Rodriguez each tossed a scoreless inning, with Rodriguez earning his fourth save of the season and 22nd straight overall.

The Angels got 11 hits on the night and went 4-for-10 with runners in scoring position.

After the Rangers took a 2-0 lead on Nevin's homer in the first, the Angels got one back in the bottom half of the inning when Chone Figgins scored on Garret Anderson's two-out RBI single.

Then in the bottom of the second, Adam Kennedy reached base on a fielder's choice and Figgins launched a towering fly ball that Rangers right fielder Kevin Mench misplayed into a triple at the wall. Kennedy scored to tie the game at 2.

Orlando Cabrera and Guerrero followed with RBI singles to put the Angels up, 4-2. In the third, Darin Erstad singled to right to lead off the inning. After stealing second base, Erstad scored on Kennedy's two-out single to center.

"We've been known to get a few RBIs and two-out hits," Erstad said. "You just put the ball in play and take your chances. You try and put the ball in play and sometimes it works."

The Rangers led the Majors in homers and total bases last season, while the Angels were 14th and ninth in the same respective categories. But the Rangers came away impressed by the Angels' offense Monday.

"They do a lot of little things well, but at the same time they got 11 hits," said Rangers shortstop Michael Young. "They got four straight two-out hits. That's not manufacturing runs; that's swinging the bats well. They had some clutch hits."







