
When the Angels celebrated their 2008 American League West title clinching on Sept. 10 with unbridled joy, John Lackey had a ready response to those who wondered about all the emotion invested in such a runaway.

"Most of you guys picked somebody else to win the division," Lackey dryly noted, "so it must be a pretty big deal."





Touche. With so many question marks coming into the season -- starting with twin aces Lackey and Kelvim Escobar on the disabled list -- the Mariners were the chic pick to claim the AL West.

Seattle, after all, had added an anticipated ace, Erik Bedard, and another respected starter, Carlos Silva, to a rotation fronted by Felix Hernandez. The Mariners seemed to have a lot of things going for them -- right up until they started playing the games.

With free agent center fielder Torii Hunter providing power, game-saving catches and old-school leadership, with new starter Jon Garland delivering consistent production and Joe Saunders and Ervin Santana flourishing in expanded rotation roles, and with Francisco Rodriguez closing down games at a record clip, the Angels refused to retreat.

For all but eight days this season, they led the division. The last time they did not call first place home was May 12.

That was two days before Lackey, having missed six weeks with a triceps strain, returned to the rotation -- and with seven strong innings began to reclaim his stature as one of the game's premier starters.

This solidified a rotation that has been the foundation of the club's success, a rotation that manager Mike Scioscia calls "the deepest since I've been here."



Before long, it became apparent that the Angels were still the class of the West -- and class was dismissed not long after the All-Star break when Scioscia's troupe ran away and hid from the pack.

A division lead that had been 3 1/2 games over the A's at the close of June mushroomed to 12 1/2 lengths with a 19-6 July, one of the best months in franchise history.

On the same memorable day -- July 29 -- the Angels landed first baseman Mark Teixeira from Atlanta and Lackey carried a no-hitter into the ninth inning in Boston against the Red Sox before Dustin Pedroia singled with one out. Lackey held on for a 6-2 win, and Teixeira soon flourishing as the No. 3 hitter in front of Vladimir Guerrero.

As difficult as it was to watch Casey Kotchman, one of their most valuable players, depart in the Teixeira deal along with Minor League pitcher Steve Marek, the Angels could see that owner Arte Moreno and general manager Tony Reagins were all in.

"It definitely gives you the feeling the front office thinks you have a chance to win," Lackey said. "They're going for it, and it gives you a lot of confidence."

As always with the Angels, pitching and defense take priority. Both have been of consistently high caliber all season, with catchers Mike Napoli and Jeff Mathis anchoring the defense. A deep bullpen featuring K-Rod, delivering his greatest of seven seasons after a difficult start, backed one of the game's premier rotations.

Modifying his violent delivery to soften the landing for his aching ankles, the closer ripped off a string of 25 consecutive successful saves. In front of K-Rod, setup men such as Scot Shields and rookie find Jose Arredondo took care of business.

With save No. 58 on Sept. 13 against the Mariners, K-Rod claimed the all-time single-season record formerly held by Bobby Thigpen of the 1990 White Sox.

In the emotional afterglow, Rodriguez thanked his teammates and Scioscia for his patience and long-standing support.

Saunders and Santana came to Spring Training anticipating a duel in the Arizona sun for the fifth spot in the Angels' rotation.

Four months later, they woke up on a Sunday morning to find they'd been selected as teammates on the 2008 American League All-Star team, bound for New York's Yankee Stadium and the July 15 Midsummer Classic. Joining them would be K-Rod, who would be able to prepare them for the experience.

It all began to come together in November. While his acquisition of Garland at the expense of shortstop Orlando Cabrera raised eyebrows, Reagins' first big move as general manager came sharply into focus as a major plus.

With Erick Aybar and Maicer Izturis excelling at shortstop, Garland enhanced the Angels' chances of advancing deeper into October than the three games they lasted last season against Boston.

While Jered Weaver wasn't as consistent as he'd hoped, the slender right-hander has held up his end of the rotation -- with the promise of better things to come.

The dean of AL managers in his ninth season in Anaheim, Scioscia was forced by injuries to constantly tweak and massage his lineup. Garret Anderson has been productive hitting everywhere from second to sixth, and Juan Rivera came alive with a big second half along with Guerrero, the master blaster.

The loss of leadoff catalyst Chone Figgins for 33 games with a hamstring strain, second baseman Howie Kendrick with two hamstring strains, in mid-April and late August, and Aybar and Izturis for extensive periods would have immobilized most clubs.

But extraordinary organizational depth, exemplified by poised middle infielders Sean Rodriguez and Brandon Wood, enabled the Angels to brave every storm.

Garland, a World Series champion in 2005 with the White Sox, sees this unit as comparable to the starters who took the ball from manager Ozzie Guillen during that memorable run.

"There are some fabulous arms on this team," Garland said. "Saunders and Santana pretty much paved the way. They've definitely taken it to the next level. Lackey and Weaver have shown what they can do. That confidence is there that we're going to give our team a chance to win darn near every night.

"In '05, it seemed like we were making each other better every game. You want to hold up your end. You get used to seeing it done day in and day out, and you want to keep it going. You want to continue bringing your best to the table."

Lackey, who claimed Game 7 of the 2002 World Series as an Angels rookie, and Garland have started and won World Series games. Saunders, Santana and Weaver are hoping to learn what that feels like.






