
KANSAS CITY -- For a guy batting .421 with 10 hits in his past five games, Reggie Willits wasn't feeling so hot.
It was a misadventure on the basepaths that had the rookie outfielder feeling bluesy on a drizzly Wednesday night at Kauffman Stadium, where Esteban German's three-run homer in the seventh inning lifted the Royals to a 3-1 decision that snapped the Angels' winning streak at four games.
Willits' two doubles and single went down the drain along with a solid effort from starter Ervin Santana on a night the offense couldn't generate enough juice against winning pitcher Jorge De La Rosa (3-2) and two relievers.
The final threat ended with Willits, having doubled against reliever Brandon Duckworth leading off the eighth inning, getting thrown out trying to reach third base with none out when a pitch got past catcher Jason LaRue.
"That was definitely my fault," Willits said, unable to savor his second consecutive three-hit night. "I made a mistake. It was stupid. Whether I'm safe or out, it's the wrong play to make. It put us in a bad situation with the big guys coming up behind me."
Whether you're the manager in the other dugout or in the Angels' lineup, you must always be aware of Vladimir Guerrero's presence. He can turn games with one swing, something he's done with regularity lately.
Guerrero was on deck, with Orlando Cabrera at the plate, when Willits made his dash for third and was gunned down by LaRue. If Reggie had stayed at second, the Royals would have had to make a decision with Guerrero no matter what Cabrera did -- pitch to him or walk him and bring the go-ahead run to the plate.
"Reggie reacted," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "In that situation, you've got to be 100 percent sure you can make it. He got a big hit to bring the tying run to the plate, but if you're going to advance there, you've got to be sure. You're relying on your read. That play's in front of you."
Willits' speed enhances his value, and it has factored in one late victory when he bolted home and scored on a contact play to decide a game.
"You want to be aggressive, but you have to know when to be aggressive," Willits said. "That was not a smart play. If it's a tie ballgame it might be a good play."
The Angels seized the lead against De La Rosa in the fifth inning on Chone Figgins' RBI single.
Erick Aybar led off with a double to left. Mike Napoli's sacrifice bunt was mishandled by De La Rosa for an error, Aybar taking third. Figgins, in his third game back, lined a single to right to score Aybar.
Santana was in and out of trouble all night until the seventh, when Tony Pena collected his second single and David DeJesus -- who'd tripled and singled earlier -- was hit by a pitch.
German jumped on a 1-0 fastball and sent it an estimated 402 feet over the wall in left-center.
The second baseman's first homer of the season came on the 108th and last pitch by Santana, who departed after 6 1/3 innings having yielded 11 hits, walking one and hitting a batter, striking out six.
"I thought Ervin had good stuff and was pitching well," Scioscia said. "I thought he did a terrific job. One pitch ended up being the ballgame. We couldn't give him any breathing room on the offensive side."
Cabrera, Guerrero and Robb Quinlan, the three hitters behind Willits, were a combined 0-for-11.
Santana, winless (0-4) on the road and unbeaten (2-0) at home, didn't want to belabor his misfortune away from Angel Stadium.
"I don't worry about it -- I do everything the same," he said. "Everything was good. When a game's close like that, one mistake's going to be the ballgame. I was trying to throw the fastball away, but it ran back to the middle. That was a bad pitch."
Royals manager Buddy Bell said it was the best he's seen Santana pitch.
After the game, the Angels announced that infielder Maicer Izturis was placed on the 15-day disabled list with a tight right hamstring that wasn't improving as hoped.
Recalled from Triple-A Salt Lake, infielder Brandon Wood will join the club for Thursday's matinee wrapping up a seven-game trip. Wood, playing third base, collected his first Major League hit against the White Sox on Sunday in Chicago in a winning effort.
Garret Anderson's tight left hip flexor still is bothering him when he runs, but he said he's able to swing the bat without pain.
"No point taking chances at this point in the season," said Anderson, who will be evaluated when the club returns on Friday to open a six-game homestand against the White Sox and Cleveland Indians.






