
ANAHEIM -- Catching effectively for the Yankees now after honing his craft with the Angels, Jose Molina sees Chone Figgins from an entirely different perspective.

Molina liked Figgins considerably more as a teammate than as a rival.

"To me, he's the key to their team," Molina was saying before Friday night's series opener with the Angels at Angel Stadium. "He can hurt you in so many different ways -- with his glove, running, hitting, timely hitting. He's extremely valuable.

"You know he's always going to give you good at-bats. He puts pressure on you as a catcher, and everyone feels it. You know he's going at some point, and everybody has to be aware of him. He's one of those guys you love having on your side -- but you don't like playing against him. He's a good guy in the clubhouse and sets the tone on the field."

The third baseman gave the Yankees fits in the Bronx as the Angels wrapped up a highly successful road trip. In two of the four games the clubs split, Figgins cranked out four hits -- the first visitor to do that twice in a series at Yankee Stadium since Wade Boggs was slashing line drives for the Red Sox in 1989.

Batting .280 with a .381 on-base percentage, Figgins has reached base safely 133 times in 77 games. It took him a while to recover his rhythm and timing after missing 33 games with a strained right hamstring, but he feels he's back in a groove despite going 1-for-10 in the just-completed three-game home series against the Orioles.

"I think I'm getting better as I learn more about myself and the game," Figgins said, nodding affirmatively when asked if he's a late bloomer at 30. "I'm finding a balance as a leadoff man, which isn't that easy to do.

"I've seen some guys get so conscious of walks -- like [Scott] Podsednik with the White Sox -- that they stop hitting. If you go up thinking about taking walks, you're going to start getting buried in counts. Podsednik had a great season in '05 when they won the championship, then for some reason started taking pitches and stopped hitting.

"I'm still thinking as a hitter and reacting to what I'm seeing. That's what has made me a better hitter. It's hard to take pitches and still be ready to hit."

The key, he pointed out, is recognizing good pitches and not swinging at pitchers' pitches.

Among American League leadoff hitters, only the Yankees' Johnny Damon (.391) and the Indians' Grady Sizemore (.384) have higher on-base percentages than Figgins, who has 22 steals in 30 attempts.

"He's disciplined at the plate," Damon said, one leadoff man assessing another. "When he gets on base, he can be as scary as anybody. You have to throw fastballs. He's a pain in the butt.

"He's just a real good player. He plays to win and is very versatile, too. That makes him even more important to his team."






