
BOSTON -- Dallas McPherson is slowly building himself a home in the middle of the Angels' lineup.

Though he struggled laying the foundation early when he went 8-for-40 over his first 12 games, the rookie third baseman ran his hitting streak to eight games entering Friday's game with the Red Sox. During the streak, McPherson had four homers, two doubles and a triple while driving in nine runs.

"It is good to see him squaring up on some balls," manager Mike Scioscia said. "You can see his confidence rising."

Speculation had begun to center on McPherson and whether his early-season struggles would land him back in Triple-A. But his recent power display has put that to rest for now, while McPherson does his best to not let it get inside his head.

"That's what fans do; that's part of the game," McPherson said. "I try to not listen to it and block it out. People still talk about Garret [Anderson] and he is one of the best players in the game."

McPherson said he is a streaky hitter but has been working on his consistency at the plate. His surge has allowed him to move up to as high as fifth in the lineup in recent games.

"I like it better," McPherson said of hitting higher in the order. "It works two ways: It means they have confidence in me and there are more RBI opportunities. I think it is easier to hit with men on base. Being able to hit with guys on base opens things up."

His recent success is not only building his confidence, but allowing him to believe he's going to be sticking around.

"I don't think I'm the weak link right now," McPherson said.

Visiting hours: Lou Merloni stopped by the clubhouse Friday to catch up with his teammates. The reserve infielder had surgery on May 11 for torn ligaments in his right ankle and will remain in a cast for another week and a half. From there, he will progress to a walking boot in a recovery that will take about five months.

"It is a process," said Merloni, who suffered the injury when he planted a spike into the artificial turf at the Metrodome. "It is going to take a while."

Merloni, currently on the 60-day disabled list, plans to play winter ball in either the Dominican Republic or Puerto Rico. He last played winter ball in 1997 in Venezuela, the offseason before his first callup to the Red Sox. Merloni said winter ball will be the best way for him to prepare for next spring, when he hopes to win a job.

"I need to keep my options open," Merloni said. "Hopefully if everything goes well, I can come back and hit the ground running. It will still be as a non-roster player, but playing winter ball can give you a leg up."

On the move: Vladimir Guerrero ran the bases for the first time since partially dislocating his left shoulder May 20 while making a headfirst slide. The right fielder is also playing catch and remains on schedule to make dry swings on Monday.

"He's feeling much better today," Scioscia said. "Everything is still on course."

Guerrero will visit a shoulder specialist in Atlanta when the Angels head there for a three-game Interleague Series with the Braves that begins Monday. Scioscia said the exam is part of the normal evaluation process.

Heroes welcome: Orlando Cabrera received a standing ovation from the Fenway Park crowd when he stepped to the plate for his first at-bat Friday to lead off the top of the third inning. The shortstop stepped out of the batter's box to acknowledge the crowd and pointed to the Boston dugout.

Cabrera came over to the Red Sox last summer in a four-team deal and helped the city to its first World Series title in 86 years, hitting .379 with two doubles and five RBIs in their pennant-clinching series against the Yankees.

Rodriguez ready: Francisco Rodriguez came through fine, both physically and emotionally, after his one-inning stint in Chicago. It was the first outing since returning from the DL for Rodriguez and he allowed a double, walked three to force in a run and struck out the side.

Scioscia had hoped Rodriguez would have an easy outing and handed him a four-run lead to protect. He needed 32 pitches, but the Angels emerged with a much-needed 10-7 win over the White Sox to avoid being swept and get a win on their four-city trip.

"He's fine," Scioscia said of Rodriguez, who has returned to his closer's role. "It was little more than an extended workout, which would have been ideal. But he's fine."

On deck: The Angels will play the Red Sox in the second game of the three-game series on Saturday at 10:20 a.m. PT. Right-hander Bartolo Colon will face Boston right-hander Bronson Arroyo.








