
PHILADELPHIA -- The Angels' hitters took one look at Citizens Bank Park on Friday, and it was an obvious case of love at first sight.

"You come out for batting practice and go, 'Wow, I can't wait to hit here,'" Torii Hunter said.

Hunter's jubilation came in the afterglow of a 7-1 victory over the Phillies in which a dominant performance by starter Ervin Santana punctuated Mike Scioscia's emotional homecoming as a manager.

Taking full advantage of its inviting dimensions in their first visit to the Phillies' 5-year-old home, the Angels pounded out 17 hits -- four by Howie Kendrick and three each by Garret Anderson and Vladimir Guerrero -- in front of 45,033 fans.





Asked if he, too, liked the park, Guerrero didn't have to say a word -- his 10,000-watt smile said it all. Guerrero's homer, two singles and three RBIs were evidence that he found Citizens Bank Park highly appealing, just as he did the now-defunct Veterans Stadium as a young slugger with the Expos.

"I always swing the bat good here," Guerrero said through coach Alfredo Griffin's translation. "It used to be in the old park, and I got some good swings in this one."

Not nearly as comforting to pitchers, Citizens Bank Park was money in the bank for Santana, who understood immediately what he needed to do.

"They're a very good team with power hitters," Santana said of the Phillies. "I have to keep the ball down and make good pitches. That's what I did."

Santana, who held Philadelphia to two hits and one run while fanning nine in seven innings, was happy he didn't have to face his buddy Guerrero, who is on one of his famous rolls.

A Phillies slayer during his Expos days, Guerrero unloaded his 11th homer of the season on an inside fastball from Philadelphia starter Adam Eaton, who yielded six runs on 12 hits in five-plus innings in falling to 2-5.

It was stunning that Guerrero could get jammed and drive a ball that far, but this is a man with career bests of 29 homers and 82 RBIs against the Phils, hitting .369 lifetime against them.

Guerrero has batted .455 during an 11-game hitting streak, raising his average from .246 on May 31 to .285 with a .442 June.

During his lengthy slump, Guerrero didn't offer any excuses, but it was later revealed he was having trouble getting any lower-body support in his swing with a right knee problem that weakened his leg drive.

"My knee wasn't feeling that good," Guerrero said. "It's feeling better now. I'm taking treatment every day. That gives me leverage -- that is the foundation of hitting. When you don't have that, you have to use your upper body. Now everything works together, upper and lower body."

That is why Guerrero suddenly is hitting like his old self -- and not his older brother Wilton, a fine singer, but never much of a power hitter (11 homers in 678 Major League games).

"It was a two-month struggle for Vladdy," Hunter said, "but at the end of the season, his numbers are going to be there. When he gets to the plate, he's ready to hit, like Bamm-Bamm [Rubble of the Flintstones]. That's what I call him."

Guerrero had plenty of accomplices in the assault on the Phillies.

Scoring twice with a double and two singles, Anderson tied former teammate Tim Salmon for the franchise lead with 986 runs scored. Anderson also walked and was hit by a pitch for just the sixth time in his career.

Kendrick lashed two doubles and two singles, driving in a run. Casey Kotchman doubled, singled and walked, and Jeff Mathis had an RBI double, a single and two intentional walks.

Santana, meanwhile, moved to 9-3, strengthening his All-Star Game credentials with one of the finest efforts of his career.

Overpowering in the middle innings, Santana produced three of his nine strikeouts in the fourth -- Ryan Howard, Pat Burrell and Geoff Jenkins. Santana's fastball was consistently in the 95-97 mph range, and his slider, finding all the right spots, was just as good.

The only run against Santana, in the sixth, was unearned after a fielding error by Kotchman, the first of the season by the Gold Glove candidate at first base. Kotchman had another error on a grounder by the same player, Jimmy Rollins, two innings later.

Mathis committed a pair of identical errors, sailing throws into center field trying to nail base thiefs. Neither error was costly.

"We had [scoring] chances every inning and, uncharacteristically, didn't make some plays in the field," Scioscia said. "In this park, seven runs aren't comfortable. They've got a terrific lineup and can get back in the game any time. It was a tremendous effort by Ervin."

Jose Arredondo and Justin Speier finished up with a scoreless inning each.

It was a satisfying homecoming for Sciosica, who grew up in Upper Darby, outside Philadelphia. He made himself visible contesting a ground-rule double ruling on a drive by Kendrick that lodged at the base of the center-field fence in the sixth inning.

Kendrick came around to score as center fielder Shane Victorino stood, hands outstretched, about five feet from the wall. Umpire Laz Diaz pulled the ball away with no difficulty, Scioscia noted, disputing the ruling that deprived Kendrick of two RBIs and what would have been his first homer of the season.






