
ATALNTA -- The Angels were able to see something Monday afternoon that they've been longing to see for weeks -- Vladimir Guerrero swinging a bat.

Guerrero, the reigning American League MVP who was injured sliding into home plate during the fifth inning of the May 20 game with the Los Angeles Dodgers, took two rounds of soft toss in the inside batting cages thrown by hitting coach Mickey Hatcher. Guerrero was cleared to take his cuts after visiting with Atlanta Braves team orthopedist Joseph Chandler.

The slugger remained mum on how the session went and how close he was to regaining his form.

"I couldn't even tell you, because it's the first time in a long time," Guerrero, who is on the disabled list with a partially dislocated left shoulder, said through an interpreter. "So 100 percent or not, I don't even know what that is right now."

Angels manager Mike Scioscia was more optimistic in his evaluation but also was cautious regarding Guerrero's immediate future.

"His swing was great, his bat speed was great," said Scioscia. "He'll progress to live batting practice inside the cage. We'll see how he is tomorrow."

Scioscia stressed that there are "peripheral things" that are important to getting Guerrero back on the field.

"He's been running the bases hard every other day," the skipper said. "He's been shagging fly balls in the outfield. His workouts have been very aggressive. He has a lot of things to work on. So we'll see."

One thing Scioscia says Guerrero won't see in Minor League pitching.

"He doesn't need Minor League at-bats," said Scioscia of his right fielder, who is hitting .303 with seven homers and 24 RBIs. "The best way to get locked into Major League pitching is to see it."

Guerrero, who was eligible to be activated Sunday, will probably not be back in the lineup before the weekend, when the Angels are in New York to play the Mets.

"I guess it will be another year for Atlanta," said Guerrero of not getting to hit at Turner Field, where he is a career .295 hitter with five homers and 23 RBIs. "But I don't dwell on the fact that we're here. I just see it right now as another ballpark where I'm not going to be able to take the field for the Angels.

"The thing that has helped me through this is the fact that it happened in May. If it would have been September or August, it would have been harder because we'd have been fighting for something that late in the season. But since it happened in May, there are so many months to go that I've been telling myself, 'Just wait. Wait your turn. Even if the team struggles you'll be able to help out.' "

The Angels, who were 2 1/2 games ahead of Texas atop the AL West when Guerrero went down, began Monday a half-game behind the Rangers, going 8-7 since his injury. But six of the seven losses were by three runs or less, including three one-run losses.

Back to the nest: This three-game series with Atlanta marks Paul Byrd's return to Turner Field.

Byrd was under contract with the Braves the previous two seasons prior to signing with the Angels during the winter, and is looking forward to the trip home.

"My family came back, I got to sleep in my own bed last night. It was a lot of fun," said Byrd, who still resides in Alpharetta, Ga. "This is like a home game for me. So it's a pleasure to come back."

Byrd was 8-7 with a 3.94 ERA last season after undergoing Tommy John surgery to repair his right elbow, hurt early in 2003 Spring Training. He's looking forward to pitching against his old team.

"I will be a little excited, so I'll have to tone that down because I can't over throw," he said. "But, yeah, I'll be excited to pitch against the guys and see what happens."

He hopes that he'll continue his solid start, which has seen him win three of his last four decisions.

"I think six of my last seven [starts] have been good," he said. "I've helped our team stay in there. We have a good pitching staff and a nice balanced team. I enjoy being over here and making it work."

Last but not least:  Monday night's game marked the first time the Angels faced the Braves in Interleague Play. The only other club the franchise has never seen is the Washington Nationals, whom they host June 13-15.

Scioscia looked forward to matching wits with Braves manager Bobby Cox.

"He's as sharp as anyone who's ever been in a dugout," Scioscia said. "You have to work to get the matchups you want."

Besides series with the Braves and Nats, the Interleague schedule includes matchups with the Mets and Florida Marlins, giving the Angels a good look at four of the five National League East clubs, all of whom have winning records.

"It's a crapshoot to see who you're playing," said Scioscia. "The NL East is tough. We've got a bunch of them on our schedule."

Down on the farm:  Lefty reliever Jonathon Rouwenhorst recorded his first Triple-A save with a scoreless ninth inning in the Salt Lake Stingers' 8-5 victory over the Sacramento River Cats.

 Up next: Byrd will face Atlanta left-hander Horacio Ramirez in the second of three games in Atlanta, with a start time of 4:35 p.m. PT.






