
PHOENIX -- The competition for the No. 5 spot in the Angels' rotation -- to be kept warm, presumably, for Kelvim Escobar -- officially is under way.











Shane Loux got first crack at showing his stuff for manager Mike Scioscia and pitching coach Mike Butcher on Saturday, and the big right-hander from Rapid City, S.D., handled himself capably in two scoreless innings against the formidable Brewers at Maryvale Baseball Park.

"To get that feeling of walking to the mound, that feeling of starting a Major League game ... there's nothing like it," said Loux, who hasn't started a Major League game since 2003 with the Tigers. "I was pretty anxious to get this one under my belt. I'll be better next time."

Loux, whose forte is pounding the strike zone with sinking fastballs, kept the Brewers off the board despite yielding two singles in the first inning and another in the second.

"I just want to show I can make quality pitches and give them quality innings," Loux, 29, said. "My strength is throwing sinkers down in the zone and having quick innings and getting deep in games. That's what I plan to do."

Scioscia felt Loux made an impressive opening statement in his bid for the job.

"Shane picked up where he left off last year," Scioscia said following the Angels' 5-3 loss, their first defeat after three spring wins. "He had a good, heavy sinker and tried to tighten up his breaking ball. He made strides with that. That was a good effort by Shane."

Dustin Moseley, the favorite to claim the spot vacated by the departed Jon Garland by virtue of his 18 spot starts across the past two seasons, gets his first taste of Cactus League competition on Sunday when he faces the Royals at Tempe Diablo Stadium.

Nick Adenhart, having recovered from the flu bug that set him back a few days, also is expected to get some work in against the Royals.

The fourth competitor under consideration for the No. 5 role -- Anthony Ortega -- is lagging "a little behind," according to Scioscia.

Ortega, who had a breakthrough 2008 season, has been restricted to long toss at 180 and 200 feet thus far in camp.

"He came out of winter ball a little tired, tender," Scioscia said. "He's getting close. We'll see how he is when he gets on the mound."

Ortega, 23, hails from Venezuela and carries 210 pounds on a 6-foot frame. He was a combined 14-7 in 28 starts last year at Double-A Arkansas and Triple-A Salt Lake, impressing scouts with his ability to get early-count outs with above-average stuff across the board.

The organization's Minor League Pitcher of the Year for 2008, Ortega threw 174 1/3 regular-season innings and 20 1/3 more in Venezuela in winter ball before shutting it down.

Scioscia maintains he is "open-minded" about the competition and will go with the best man in camp.

"It might not go down to the last week," Scioscia said, "but&#160;it isn't going to happen in the first week."

Loux, who missed the entire 2007 season after the Mariners voided his contract, was working with kids at a facility near his home in Gilbert, Ariz., when former Major League pitcher Rich Barker initiated contact with the Angels.

Signing a Minor League deal, Loux impressed last spring with a strong stand-in effort against the Dodgers, made the Salt Lake staff and excelled (12-6, 3.98 ERA in 22 starts) as the Pacific Coast League Pitcher of the Year.

That effort earned Loux seven appearances out of the bullpen with the Angels, and he delivered a 2.81 ERA without a decision.

Approaching the game from a fresh perspective -- "I forgot it was a game and you should have fun" -- has enabled Loux to focus on the possibilities that exist even if he doesn't land a job with the Angels.

"One thing I did learn early in my career is every time you take the mound, you pitch for 30 teams," he said, meaning they're all watching in some fashion. "I feel at home here with the Angels, but my goal is to pitch in the Major Leagues.

"I'm fully aware that everybody's watching every time you take the mound, whether in a Triple-A game, an Angel game at Angel Stadium, wherever it is. I want to make somebody's pitching staff."






