
PHILADELPHIA -- Vladimir Guerrero once again turned Citizens Bank Park into his private playground Saturday night with a pair of homers, but he left it for good buddy Erick Aybar to deliver the crushing blow.

A third-inning replacement at shortstop when Maicer Izturis tweaked his right hamstring, Aybar yanked a Brett Myers delivery into the right-field corner for a two-run homer n the eighth inning that propelled the Angels and Joe Saunders to a 6-2 victory over the Phillies in front of 45,196.

Saunders, who had the Phillies shut out for 6 2/3 innings before they rallied to tie it on a homer, double and single, became the second pitcher in the Major Leagues with 11 wins, joining the D-backs' Brandon Webb. 





Calling the game-turning homer "the best" moment of his career, Aybar said, "I was looking for a line drive. It was a changeup, a little low. It started to [hook] and I said, 'Uh-oh.'"

Aybar's "uh-oh" was met swiftly by a collective "oh-no" among Phillies fans, who turned on Myers and Co. with a chorus of boos. This is the fourth straight series the National League East leaders have dropped, the loss their sixth in eight games.

"I wasn't too irritated about the two home runs to Guererro, because they were solos and I figured we could score two runs," Myers said, having fallen to 3-9. "But the one in the eighth pretty much put the nail in the coffin."

He said it was a split-fingered fastball, not a changeup, Aybar smashed.

Saunders, at 11-3, leads the American League, while the Angels continue to be the Majors' best road club at 23-12.

"We love hostile environments and thrive off that," Saunders said.

The mood around the Phillies, already dark after Aybar's second homer of the season, worsened when Ryan Howard -- representing the potential winning run -- flailed away at a third strike to leave two runners stranded in the bottom of the eighth.

That was the fourth strikeout of the inning by Shields, the fourth time that has happened in franchise history.

The Angels needed only one hit -- Chone Figgins' third single, delivering a run -- to tack on a pair of insurance runs in the ninth. After Jose Arredondo walked the only two men he faced, the first free tickets he's issued in his young career, Francisco Rodriguez restored order with a double-play grounder and a pop fly for his 29th save.

From Angels manager Mike Scioscia's viewpoint, the Angels used their resources wisely, starting with Saunders pounding the strike zone to Guerrero pounding two balls into the same general location in left-center.

"Vlad got us going," Scioscia said of the notorious Phillies killer, who has three homers in his first two games at Citizens Bank Park. "Joe Saunders did a terrific job putting up all the zeros. Joe was in the zone early and expanded it when he needed to. He created depth by changing speeds."

Saunders was sailing along until he made a mistake with a high fastball that Jayson Werth launched for a solo homer to center with two outs in the seventh, breaking up the shutout bid.

Pedro Feliz's RBI double after a Chris Coste walk tied it at 2. When Eric Bruntlett singled to center, Feliz was held at third. Casey Kotchman cut off Gary Matthews Jr.'s throw, wheeled and shot down Bruntlett at second to end the threat.

Scioscia labeled this "the key play in the game."

On Sunday, trying to avert an Angels sweep against Jered Weaver, Phillies ace Cole Hamels will try to cool off -- or avoid -- the scorching Guerrero.

After popping out in his first at-bat, Guerrero went down for a Myers breaking ball in the fourth and sent it rocketing into the seats. Three innings later, it was a fastball on the inner half that he managed to hammer, giving him 13 homers for the season and 42 RBIs.

Guerrero's hitting streak has reached 12 games, and it includes 22 hits for a .458 average, six homers and 12 RBIs.

Guerrero, who now has 378 career homers, has terrorized the Phillies like no other team in the Majors. He has 32 homers and 84 career RBIs against the Phils, going back to his days in Montreal with the Expos.

For Saunders, there was some personal satisfaction in taking the measure of the Phillies. They had an opportunity to sign him out of high school as a fifth-round pick in the First-Year Player Draft of 1999, but did not deliver what he considered an appropriate offer, sending the young lefty off to Virginia Tech in his home state.

Three years later, the Angels snapped him up in the first round (12th overall) and a trip to the All-Star Game is seemingly in his grasp in his third season.

"It wasn't a great experience," Saunders said of his dealings with the Phillies as a teen. "It's nice to show them what I can do, what they missed out on.

"To get drafted out of high school in the fifth round was a huge honor for me. How it was handled, you want to forget about it. It wasn't the best situation for me. It was better for me to go to college and start my education. It worked out for the best. I don't have any regrets. I'm very happy where I am and who I'm with."

Among the players the Phillies chose in that same Draft was Myers, in the first round. They signed the big right-hander, who met Saunders for the first time Saturday night.

"That's a little tasteful," said Saunders, for whom happy endings have become the norm.






