
ANAHEIM -- Paul Byrd worked on a sinker in Spring Training and was pleased with its effectiveness.

Byrd throws a variety of pitches and figured the sinker would be a nice complement to his cutter: a ground ball pitch to go with his fly ball pitch.

It worked -- for the hitters, especially the lefties. Byrd's batting average against soared over .300 and the right-hander went 1-3 in his first five starts while allowing a total of 43 hits.

With the slider not a viable alternative because it breaks into lefties, Byrd turned to pitching coach Bud Black and the pair altered the grip on his changeup and Byrd's fortunes have shifted dramatically.

Since the beginning of May, Byrd has gone 8-3 and his hits allowed each month have dwindled from 33 in May to 29 in June and 21 in July. Byrd will get one more start this month when he takes the hill at the Rogers Centre as the Angels open their six-game, two-city road trip against the Blue Jays. His average against is now .256 overall and .281 vs. left-handed hitters.

"If you notice when I pitch there is not a lefty on the bench. They're all on the field. I think teams would start a left-handed shortstop if they could," Byrd said with a smile. "But I don't care. The changeup is working for me and it's a great pitch. I can throw it to righties and lefties. It breaks away from lefties."

As for the sinker, it's still in the bag but it's no longer a featured pitch.

"It is not what I thought it was going to be," Byrd said. "I gave up a lot of bloop hits with it. It is just a part of the puzzle."

Rest for the weary: Manger Mike Scioscia gave two key pieces of the back end of his bullpen the day off Sunday afternoon, declaring both Francisco Rodriguez and Scot Shields off limits in the series finale with the Yankees.

Rodriguez and Shields have both appeared in seven of 10 games since the All-Star break with Rodriguez successfully converting seven save opportunities. Scioscia said Brendan Donnelly would handle closer chores Sunday with Esteban Yan and Joel Peralta stepping into setup roles.

"There are going to be times when the depth in your bullpen is needed. We are more than a two-man or a three-man bullpen," Scioscia said. "This is a day when you hope these guys get the opportunity and when they do, they get it done."

Rehab report: Dallas McPherson and Robb Quinlan will both head to Tempe, Ariz., where they will continue their workouts as the team heads east on its two-city trip.

McPherson, who is rehabbing from a left hip strain, is further along than Quinlan and will begin batting practice for the first time since going on the disabled list July 8. Scioscia said McPherson will engage in full fielding drills and some running, but has yet to resume running the bases.

"He'll be folded into batting practice and we'll evaluate him later in the week to see where he is and possibly put him on a rehab assignment," Scioscia said.

Quinlan, who is recovering from a bulging disk in his neck, will concentrate largely on rehab and conditioning with limited baseball activity.

Legend in the house: Former UCLA basketball coach John Wooden paid a visit to the Angels clubhouse Sunday. It was the first visit by Wooden at Angel Stadium this season, but Scioscia said he has been a regular since 2002.

With 10 NCAA championships won during his run that earned him the title "Wizard of Westwood," when Wooden speaks, Scioscia listens.

"Everything that comes out of his mouth is advice if you listen hard enough," Scioscia said.

Good stuff: Actress Eva Longoria of "Desperate Housewives" threw out the first pitch Sunday afternoon and bullpen catcher Steve Soliz was on the receiving end.

"It was a gift from those guys," Soliz said of the relievers, one of whom normally catches the honorary first pitch before games. "Her last name on the show is Solis."

Longoria plays Gabrielle Solis on the program, but was honored Sunday as the national spokesperson for PADRES Contra El Cancer, a non-profit charity that benefits Latino children with cancer and their families.

On deck: The Angels will be off Monday and will head to Toronto where they will play a three-game series with the Blue Jays, beginning Tuesday at 4:07 p.m. PT. Byrd will face Toronto left-hander Gustavo Chacin.






