
The Angels named their Minor League coaching staff for 2006 on Monday, with former catcher Brian Harper taking over the managerial reins in Salt Lake.

Joining Harper is former big-league pitcher Charles Nagy, who will be the Triple-A pitching coach, while former Angels outfielder Eric Owens is the new hitting coach at Class A Cedar Rapids and former Angels pitcher Ken Patterson will be the pitching coach at Double-A Arkansas. Harper replaces Dino Ebel, who is the new third base coach for the Angels.

In addition to Salt Lake, Arkansas and Cedar Rapids, the Angels' Minor League affiliates in 2006 will be Rancho Cucamonga (High Class A) and the Orem Owlz (rookie level) of the Pioneer League. The Angels will also field rookie teams in the Arizona League (at the new Minor League complex in Tempe) and the Dominican Summer League (San Pedro de Macoris).

Tyrone Boykin moves up to Arkansas after two seasons at Rancho Cucamonga and Bobby Magallanes will return for his third season at Cedar Rapids. Charlie Romero, who oversees the Angels' Dominican complex, will again manage the Angels' Dominican Summer League team that captured the 2005 San Pedro Division championship.

Bobby Mitchell, who spent the last three seasons as the Angels roving infield/baserunning instructor, will take over as manager at Rancho Cucamonga. Ever Magallanes, the older brother of Bobby Magallanes, joins the Angels as the manager of the Arizona League rookie affiliate in Tempe.

Keith Comstock replaces Mike Butcher as the roving pitching instructor. Comstock was the pitching coach at Arkansas last season while Butcher has taken the pitching coach position with Tampa Bay. Todd Takayoshi, Arkansas' hitting coach last season, has been appointed the roving catching instructor to take the place of Bobby Ramos, who also joins Tampa Bay.

Former Padres third base coach Rob Picciolo has been named roving infield instructor and veteran Major League infielder Craig Grebeck has been promoted to hitting coach at Rancho Cucamonga after spending 2005 at Mesa.

Other Minor League coaching positions named for this season include: Jim Eppard, Salt Lake hitting coach; Keith Johnson, Arkansas hitting coach; Erik Bennett, Rancho Cucamonga pitching coach; and Tom Kotchman, Orem manager.

Ty Van Burkleo will remain as the roving hitting instructor, Bruce Hines will be the field coordinator/outfield while Bill Lachemann returns as special assignment catching instructor.







