
SEATTLE -- Reggie Willits is a rookie, still relatively new to all this, but he knows how it goes.
"You like to support your pitcher every game," Willits said, "but you play a long season, you're going to have games like this."
After pounding Detroit's pitching staff for three games in a weekend sweep at home, accumulating 34 runs in the process, the Angels suddenly were running on empty Monday night at Safeco Field.
Miguel Batista outdueled Kelvim Escobar, and the Mariners seized a 2-0 decision in front of 31,232 at Safeco Field to cut the Angels' AL West lead to three games.
"We definitely want to come here and make a statement," Escobar said. "The statement is: We have to take the series. We lost today, but we have to come back tomorrow."
If there were statements made in the series opener, they were delivered by Batista and Ichiro Suzuki, to the effect that the Mariners can pitch and hit. They also can defend, with left fielder Raul Ibanez -- not known for his glove -- making the play of the game and shortstop Yuniesky Betancourt pitching in with several highlight-reel plays behind Batista.
"They've turned their season around," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "They're going to be there the whole year. It's gonna be neck and neck. We just have to get back into our game and focus on that."
Escobar, who struck out seven and yielded eight hits in eight innings for his third complete game, fell to 11-5. He shaved his ERA to 2.87, second in the American League to Oakland's Dan Haren, at 2.42.
"I tried to keep the game as close as I could," Escobar said. "You have to give a lot of credit to the way Miguel pitched. I think I did a pretty good job. I set a tempo. I can't worry about the offense. You have a lot to think about out there."
Starting, of course, with Ichiro, the All-Star Game MVP. The man with the magic wand was Escobar's nemesis with three hits, scoring one run after his third-inning triple and driving in the other with a bad-hop single.
"It doesn't matter if you get ahead two strikes, he's always going to put the ball in play," Escobar said. "He's a great hitter; I'm amazed. Sometimes you bounce a ball and he still hits it. I don't think there's much you can do. Just be aggressive in the strike zone, hope you execute and get good results."
Batista took the Angels out of their game by not letting them go first to third in his seven innings, scattering four hits and retiring 15 of the last 16 men he faced.
Batista moved to 11-7 with an inning of relief each from Brandon Morrow and J.J. Putz, the latter registering his 31st save.
It could have been different, however, if not for Ibanez's alertness in left in the top of the third of a still-scoreless encounter.
Jeff Mathis and Willits singled with none out, but Batista reached back and struck out sizzling Chone Figgins and retired Orlando Cabrera on a deep fly to Ichiro in center. That brought up Vladimir Guerrero, a .550 hitter against Batista coming into the game.
Guerrero crushed a sinking line drive that Ibanez reached and speared inches off the ground.
"We score two runs there with two outs," said Willits, who was off and flying. "He made a great read and a great play. Maybe next time it'll fall."
Before the crowd had stopped buzzing in the bottom half of the inning, Ichiro laced a triple to the right-center gap and scored on Jose Vidro's single, blasted past Escobar through the middle.
"That was close," Escobar said. "He hit that ball pretty hard. All I did was react, and I kind of went down. It was a bullet."
The Mariners made it 2-0 in the seventh on singles by Kenji Johjima, Betancourt and Ichiro, the latter a hard grounder rising up and caroming off first baseman Casey Kotchman's shoulder.
"An awkward bounce," Kotchman said. "We got a quality outing out of Escobar, which he's been doing a long time. [Batista] was throwing cutters and sinkers. He changed speeds just enough. He threw strikes, pitched to contact and let his defense play -- and they made some nice plays out there."
A single and steal by Willits in the fifth represented the only disturbance against Batista from the fourth through the seventh.
"He was throwing a lot of cutters, sliders, whatever you call 'em, to both sides of the plate," Willits said. "He'd throw the fastball and the changeup enough to keep you off-balance. He knows how to pitch."
Statement made.
Now it's the Angels' turn to respond with John Lackey facing ex-Angel Jeff Weaver on Tuesday night.






