
ANAHEIM -- The offseason for the Angels has been defined by their prospects as much as their veterans.

A number of high-profile trade rumors followed the club for the past couple of months, but the asking prices invariably included one or more of the organization's highly valued prospects. General manager Bill Stoneman made it clear that none of the proposed deals was worth the price.

With Spring Training opening Wednesday as pitchers and catchers are scheduled to report, this highly touted group will get the opportunity to show exactly where and when they fit into the Angels' plans.

Here are capsules on seven prospects with commentary from scouting director Eddie Bane:

Joe Saunders, LHP: Saunders made two starts for the Angels last season with mixed results. Against the Blue Jays on Aug. 16, Saunders made his first Major League start and held Toronto to a pair of runs over 7 1/3 innings. But at Seattle about a month later, Saunders allowed six quick runs in the first two innings and finished without a decision.

The left-hander made two stops in the Minors last season, going 7-4 with a 3.49 in 18 starts at Double-A Arkansas and 3-3 with a 4.58 ERA in nine starts at Triple-A Salt Lake. Saunders, who was a first-round draft choice out of Virginia Tech in 2002, was the organization's pitcher of the year in 2005.

"He's close and when you're that close it comes down to your command. He needs to use the change more, but he has good stuff."

Jered Weaver, RHP:  Considered by many to have the most upside among Angels pitching prospects, Weaver is close to breaking through. After being drafted with their first pick in 2004, Weaver held out for nearly a full year before signing a Minor League deal with the Angels.

Weaver posted a 4-1 mark with 3.82 ERA in seven starts at Single-A Rancho Cucamonga before going 3-3 with a 3.98 ERA in eight starts at Arkansas. At both stops, Weaver showed his trademark control by recording a combined 95 strikeouts with 26 walks in 76 innings. He fared less well in the Arizona Fall League when he was 1-3 with a 5.47 ERA in seven starts but struck out 35 and walked five.

"It's time to get going. He has plus command and good stuff, not great. But the thing that makes him great is his command. He has a similar delivery to his brother [Jeff]."

Kendry Morales, 1B, DH: The player who got the most attention last spring but no one ever saw was Morales, who was stuck in the Dominican waiting to get processed and get clearance to enter the United States. Once the Cuban defector arrived he wasted little time by hitting a homer in his first at-bat.

His reputation preceded him (at 19, he was the cleanup hitter on the Cuban national team) and he's put him the numbers to support it since. Morales hit .344 at Rancho Cucamonga before getting the jump after 22 games. In 281 at-bats at Arkansas, Morales hit .306 with 17 homers and 54 RBIs. He then led the AFL with 14 doubles while hitting .380. Projecting mostly as a first baseman, Morales could also get a look at third or in the outfield eventually.

"He is going to be an outstanding hitter. He will hit for average and for power. I believe he has the potential to hit 30 home runs. He is pretty good defensively but he is not close to [Casey] Kotchman or [Darin] Erstad."

Howie Kendrick, 2B: The infielder raised his profile considerably last season by hitting well at all levels. Kendrick hit .384 with 23 doubles in 279 at-bats at Rancho Cucamonga and .342 with 20 doubles in 190 at-bats at Arkansas. In the AFL, Kendrick hit .380 and posted a 1.008 OPS (on-base percentage plus slugging).

The performance by the 10th round pick in 2002 has made Kendrick a target of Major League personnel directors.

"He is the best hitter in the Minor Leagues right now. He is a pure hitter. He needs to get better at defense, but he can hit at any level. He has average power that might project to the 15-20 home run range at some point. He reminds me of Bill Madlock."

Brandon Wood, SS: The first-round pick in the 2003 draft had a breakout year in 2005 that surprised even some in the Angels organization. He led the minors with 43 homers while playing at Rancho Cucamonga and like Kendrick, caught the eye of other Major League teams. Also like Kendrick, he was named the co-Minor League Player of the Year in the organization and hit .321 with 51 doubles and 115 RBIs

For an encore, Wood set a new AFL mark with 14 homers and also led the developmental circuit with 32 RBIs while posting a 1.086 OPS. At 6-foot-3 and 185 pounds, Wood projects as a third baseman but his skills may keep him where he is.

"We were tremendously surprised, but one of the things he's got is he's such a good kid. There is also a chance for him to stay at short. He is not a plus runner, but has a good first step. You envision a guy with that size to be a third baseman, but he shows great instincts."

Erick Aybar, SS: A slick fielder, Aybar joined his double-play partner at Arkansas (Callaspo) by making the Texas League postseason all-star team and was the organization's Defensive Player of the Month for April.

Aybar hit .303 with 29 doubles and 49 stolen bases at Arkansas. The switch-hitter was signed as a free agent out of the Dominican Republic in 2002 and hit .325 there this winter.

"He is what you're looking for in a shortstop. He is a true shortstop and he's not going anywhere else. He can play defense, but he gets thrown out stealing too much. He has to become a better baserunner. It's the little things that show up at the Major Leagues. You have to come prepared. "

Alberto Callaspo, 2B: Callaspo made two stops last season on the organization ladder, hitting .297 in 350 at-bats at Arkansas and .316 in 212 at-bats after getting promoted to Salt Lake. Signed as a free agent out of Venezuela in 2001, Callaspo was named to the Texas League postseason all-star team last season and hit .304 with eight doubles and a .370 on-base percentage this winter.

"He is a good-looking hitter, but he's going to have to learn how to play without Erick Aybar. He is also a good defender but now he has to battle Howie Kendrick."








