
A major star, Mark Teixeira, arrived to play first base and bring authority to the lineup.

The ace, John Lackey, came within two outs of a no-hitter.

There were five consecutive wins in the most hostile, challenging yards in America -- Fenway Park and Yankee Stadium.

On their flight home Sunday night, the Angels could sit back and reflect on 10 extraordinary summer days along the East Coast.

What a long, strange, stunningly successful trip it was.

It may have ended with a dud and a thud in consecutive losses to the Yankees in The House That Ruth Built, but that could not diminish the remarkable series of events preceding those unhappy endings.

The setbacks on Saturday and Sunday happened to coincide with Torii Hunter's return home to Arkansas for the funeral of his beloved grandmother.

"Torii has such a presence on this team," tough-minded, underrated catcher Jeff Mathis said, calling the club's new center fielder a unifier. "He does everything he can to bring everybody together and keep everybody together. He's a great leader."

Starting in Baltimore, sweeping through Boston and ending in The Bronx, the Angels showed the Orioles, Red Sox and Yankees -- and legions of fans and media mavens -- that they are a force.

Their 69-42 record is the best in the Majors. So is their 38-21 road record. Nobody is even close to that.

The rotation, rock solid one through five, is the foundation. Closer Francisco Rodriguez is on target to obliterate the all-time saves record at the back end of a deep, resourceful bullpen. The defense, solid up the middle, rarely coughs one up, as in Sunday's 14-9 loss. The offense is deep and versatile, loaded with a variety of weapons.

Yankees leadoff catalyst Johnny Damon compared the Angels to the championship Yankees teams of the second half of the 1990s after they took the first two of four games, Hunter delivering handsomely both times.

In Boston, manager Terry Francona had conceded that the Angels were playing better than anyone in the league. It was a fitting reaction given that his club had just been swept twice in a row, losing eight games in succession to the Los Angeles outfit operating out of Orange County -- the same club it swept three straight in last October's AL Championship Series.

"It's flattering to be talked about," Mathis said. "But I think I speak for most of the guys in the room when I say we kind of like being under the radar. Makes things a little easier that way."

One day alone would have made it a memorable trip. Adding Teixeira, disciplined and dangerous, to the mix mid-journey created a feeling in the clubhouse that management was all in.

Teixeira's arrival came on the same night Lackey flirted with his no-hitter before Dustin Pedroia singled and Kevin Youkilis homered in the ninth.

"We're in it to win it," Tony Reagins said with a boldness that has characterized his brief time in the general manager's chair.

In the space of a week in November, days after succeeding Bill Stoneman, Reagins pulled the trigger on a controversial deal (Orlando Cabrera for Jon Garland) and signed free agent Hunter.

Now this: Teixeira, a premium talent in his prime at 28, for quality first baseman Casey Kotchman and pitching prospect Stephen Marek.







"It definitely helps that we've got a nice mix -- veteran guys who have the track records kind of leading some of the young guys who have talent. It's cool here. It's definitely a good feeling in the clubhouse."




-- Angels pitcherJohn Lackey






With Teixeira, unsigned beyond this season, capable of igniting an all-out free-agent war while Kotchman was under control for three more seasons, this high-risk, high-reward move was atypical of Angels management.

"It definitely gives you the feeling the front office thinks you have a chance to win," Lackey said. "They're going for it, and it gives you a lot of confidence.

"Casey was a huge part of our team. He was a guy, when early in the season we weren't scoring a lot of runs, who was a key part of our offense. Kotch is a really good player, but I don't think you can say it's not an upgrade."

Lackey was a World Series champion in 2002, starting and winning Game 7 against the Giants in Anaheim, before he'd put in a full Major League season.

Now he's an established veteran, a mood and tone setter, taking his team's temperature and keeping things in perspective.

"There's definitely a feeling in the clubhouse similar to the second half of that '02 season," Lackey said. "We felt we were going to win every time we went out there. It's a fun feeling to have.

"It definitely helps that we've got a nice mix -- veteran guys who have the track records kind of leading some of the young guys who have talent. It's cool here. It's definitely a good feeling in the clubhouse."

Part of that he ascribes to Hunter, who brings humor, energy and toughness on a daily basis.

"Torii, he's unbelievable," Lackey said. "I'd heard nothing but good things about him, and he's been even better than I expected. He's great in the clubhouse, and on the field he gets after it. There's definitely something there with the guy."

There's also something special with the new first baseman.

After delivering in mostly small, subtle ways in his first four games with the Angels -- drawing walks, keeping rallies moving, making all the plays at first -- Teixeira demonstrated his game-breaking talents on Sunday.

With two outs in the eighth inning and his team down by three runs, he crushed a grand slam for a 9-8 lead. The game got away under an uncharacteristic blur of defensive miscues, but his point was driven home.

"We got back in the ballgame, and Tex got a big hit for us," manager Mike Scioscia said, not needing to add that's why they went out and got him.

After the deal was made, Mike Sweeney, Oakland's veteran first baseman, gave voice to a widely held view when he said the trade "made a great team even better. Their lineup was one of the best in baseball, and you add Teixeira to the mix, that's some serious firepower, brother."

Nobody is making fun of the Angels' lack of clout any more. Big bats are aligned in the heart of the lineup, with table-setters up top, led by Chone Figgins.

"Figgy's about as good as it gets in getting things started," Hunter said. "I've been waiting for these guys to put it all together. And when it happens, I'm like, `Wow! This is really amazing to see.'" 

The Angels can beat you now with speed and power, small ball or big ball. They can shut you down with pitching and defense. Managerial acumen is another acknowledged asset.

You name it, the Angels have it.

"You have to look at the big picture," Garret Anderson said. "This team never gets too high or too low. Losses don't bother us. We just keep moving forward."

They plan to carry that momentum deep into October.






