
ANAHEIM -- The Angels called up Kendry Morales from Triple-A Salt Lake on Friday to replace Howie Kendrick, who was placed on the disabled list on Wednesday with a non-displaced fracture of the middle finger of his left hand. Morales will be used primarily in a bench role while Kendrick is out.

Maicer Izturis and Erick Aybar, who was in the lineup at second base for Friday's opener against the Seattle Mariners, are the options to fill Kendrick's starting spot. Izturis has been playing third base while Chone Figgins recovers from two fractured fingers on his throwing hand and was in the lineup there again on Friday. Should Izturis receive playing time at second base, Robb Quinlan is available to play third base.

Morales was hitting .291 with a homer and eight RBIs in 13 games with Salt Lake.

The 23-year old first baseman saw action in 57 games with the Angels last season, batting .234 with five homers and 22 RBIs.

Angels third-base prospect Brandon Wood was in the pool of players considered to replace Kendrick on the roster, but Morales was ultimately selected.

According to manager Mike Scioscia, the Angels decided to bring Morales up in favor of Wood for several reasons.

"Kendry gives us another left-handed bat to choose from and he has been swinging the bat really well at Salt Lake," Scioscia said. "The fact that he has been here before did factor into the decision to bring him up."

Vlad back: Angels right fielder Vladimir Guerrero was back in his customary No. 3 spot in the lineup for Friday night's tilt against Seattle.

Guerrero missed the two-game series against the Oakland Athletics after being struck on the right hand by a Josh Beckett fastball on Monday in Boston.

"Vlad feels good, can put a pain-free swing on the ball and can do all the things that he needs to be able to do to play in the outfield," said Scioscia.

Guerrero's bat should help the Angels' slumping offense, as he owns a .462 lifetime clip (6-for-13) against Friday's starter Miguel Batista.

Colon ready to go: Angels right-hander Bartolo Colon is all set for his return to the mound on Saturday night against Seattle. Colon, who is recovered from a torn right rotator cuff, has not pitched in a Major League game since July.

The pitcher did make three Minor League rehab starts and, according to Scioscia, "feels very strong. His velocity is in the mid-90s, and he can easily throw 100 pitches [Saturday] if need be."

Old news: Scioscia did not want to talk much about Friday's return to Anaheim of former Angels outfielder Jose Guillen, except for a few short answers.

Guillen and Scioscia feuded in 2004, when the outfielder was suspended for the final eight games of the season for throwing a tantrum after being pulled from a game for a pinch-runner. A clubhouse argument between Guillen and Scioscia soon followed, and Guillen never played another game for the Angels.

Guillen has recently been quoted as saying that he is not ready to bury the hatchet and still holds a grudge against Scioscia.

"Jose has flip-flopped back and forth on this situation," Scioscia said. "We spoke two times -- once when he was traded -- and he said he was accountable, took responsibility for his actions and moved on. He has just been a circle of contradictions ever since."

Family reunion: Jered Weaver admits that it is "weird" having his brother, Jeff, come to town with the opposing team for a series, as opposed to him already being here.

"It hasn't really kicked in yet, but maybe it will when I see him out on the field in another uniform.

As for the brothers' pitching matchup that would have happened had the Angels not had a game postponed in Boston last Sunday?

"I'm sure it will happen sometime in the future," Jered said, "and I'm not too sure how it will affect me until it actually happens."

Jeff is scheduled to pitch on Sunday against the Angels, while Jered's start got pushed back to Monday due to the postponed game in Boston. The brothers have lunch plans on Saturday.

Up next: Colon makes his season debut on Saturday night for the Angels' 6:05 PT contest against the Mariners. Left-hander Horacio Ramirez (1-0, 1.50 ERA) will oppose Colon.






