
ANAHEIM -- The long, unsuccessful pursuit of Mark Teixeira has occupied most of the Angels' winter, but they have time to tie together the package they intend to unveil in mid-February when Spring Training convenes in Tempe, Ariz.

In the afterglow of the signing of free-agent closer Brian Fuentes to a two-year deal with an option for 2011, Angels general manager Tony Reagins would not commit to which direction the club is taking as it considers offensive upgrades and acquiring a fifth starting pitcher.

"We're going to keep our options open and look for other opportunities to make our club better," he said. "Whatever that is, we're going to be aggressive. Right now, there is no clear-cut [preference] of going for a pitcher or position player. We're going to continue to work the phones and see what we can do to make us better."

The biggest name left on the market is Manny Ramirez. Reagins has maintained that the club will not sign the slugging left fielder who was most recently employed by the Dodgers, in spite of persistent rumors that ownership still covets him and could swoop in with a stunning, last-minute move.

A handful of starters remain available, with Derek Lowe, a Dodgers stalwart, heading the list. Padres ace Jake Peavy remains available in trade, but the Angels haven't been able to satisfy San Diego in those discussions.

The Angels have said they are content to go into camp throwing the fifth starter's role, left vacant by free agent Jon Garland, into competition with a handful of candidates led by Dustin Moseley.

The offense could use an injection of muscle, and there is no one remotely in the class of Ramirez. Like Teixeira, the two-time World Series champion in Boston is represented by Scott Boras, an agent known to wait things out in hopes that a team emerges at that last hour with an offer that cannot be refused.

While various clubs, including the Giants most recently, have been linked with Ramirez in speculative reports, only the Dodgers are known to have presented an offer, a two-year deal worth $45 million that was subsequently pulled off the table.

Ramirez, at 36, is believed to be seeking a deal for three or four years after Boras initially targeted a six-year pact for the colorful outfielder.





Reagins was forthright in the wake of the Teixeira signing by the Yankees in denying interest in Ramirez. The GM also indicated that the Angels were not in the hunt for such other free-agent bats as Adam Dunn, Pat Burrell, Bobby Abreu and Milton Bradley.

Garret Anderson also is available and would seem to fit an Angels need for a left-handed bat, but Reagins has termed a return of the franchise leader in hits, RBIs and total bases "unlikely."

Despite losing out on Teixeira, Reagins is far from discouraged by the roster in place.

"We'd like to see what our young guys can do," Reagins said. "We like our club."

Kendry Morales is set to move in at first base, and the re-signing of Juan Rivera to a three-year contract gives the club a hitter who has shown the ability to reach 25 homers and 90 RBIs in the Major Leagues. Rivera is now two winters removed from a broken leg and should be ready to return to form if given a full-time job in left field.

Another option is to move Chone Figgins to left, leaving third base in the hands of Brandon Wood. A touted prospect for several years with big-time power, Wood showed in September that he has the ability to deliver when he finally played on a consistent basis. Wood is considered a solid defender at third as well as his natural shortstop position.

Another way to juice up the offense is to find more designated hitter at-bats for Mike Napoli. Injuries have interrupted his past two seasons, but Napoli has shown the ability to become a 30-homer, 100-RBI man given a full season of plate appearances.

The Angels could continue to have Napoli share the catching duties with Jeff Mathis while assuming DH at-bats on the days Mathis catches.






