
ANAHEIM -- Juan Rivera played temporary hero, but Mark Teixeira carried the evening.

Teixeira hit a solo home run to lead off the 12th inning and provide the difference as the Rangers handed the Angels a 7-6 loss to open the series.

Rivera had injected life into the sellout Angel Stadium crowd with a game-tying three-run homer in the eighth, but the Rangers' bullpen held the Angels scoreless over the remaining 4 1/3 innings.

Kevin Gregg (3-4) surrendered the blast to Teixeira to take the loss. Wes Littleton (1-0) picked up the win in relief, and Akinori Otsuka earned his 22nd save.

It was the Angels' third loss in their last four games after a successful 10-game road trip that allowed them to briefly  taste first place in the American League West.

"We managed to get back and tie it, but we have to do the little things to win, and tonight we didn't do enough of them," manager Mike Scioscia said. "You like to show momentum and show you can steal some games, but you have to keep it up."

It was just the third loss for the Angels in their last 13 games against the Rangers and second in their last 11 games at home with the divisional rival.

With the A's idle and waiting to open a three-game series in Seattle, the Angels dropped two games back and are now closer to last place than first with Texas on their tail.

"We've done some good things over the past month but we have to carry that forward," Scioscia said. "It seems like the last couple of games we've struggled offensively.

One highlight for the Angels was provided by Vladimir Guerrero, who homered in the fourth inning to tie the game at a run apiece. The 429-foot blast into the rock pile in center field was Guerrero's 22nd home run this season and extended his hitting streak against the Rangers to 43 games.

Guerrero, who added an RBI double in the eighth, has at least one hit in every game he's played against the Rangers. Adam Kennedy singled in the 12th to extend his hitting streak to 17 games, the longest by an Angel this season, and Howie Kendrick extended his hitting streak to 13 games.

Jered Weaver, who has won all seven decisions this season, was not sharp, but the bullpen dealt the biggest blow to the Angels' chances of stealing a comeback victory.

With Weaver out after six innings, the bullpen turned a one-run deficit into a four-run hole as Hector Carrasco and J.C. Romero were unable to retire a batter in the seventh. Carrasco allowed four straight hits before departing with Carlos Lee and Teixeira each driving in a run.

Romero then came on to face the left-handed Hank Blalock and got the ground ball he wanted, but it was high chopper to third. Maicer Izturis did not have a play and Lee scored easily. All three runs were charged to Carrasco.

Weaver struggled with his command in the strike zone, and it showed as he labored through the first two innings.

He pitched into the seventh inning in his last start but said his arm felt tight toward the end. Weaver's been bothered with biceps tendinitis in the past, and the condition pushed him from one start last month, but he said it was mostly non-existent Thursday.

Weaver allowed the leadoff hitter to reach base in the first two innings. In the second, Mark DeRosa doubled and scored on Brad Wilkerson's sac fly.

Weaver then surrendered two runs in the sixth on back-to-back triples by Blalock and DeRosa before Ian Kinsler's RBI single. He ended up allowing three runs on eight hits with a walk and three strikeouts.

"The offense picked me up today," Weaver said. "I was kicking myself in the butt for giving up those two runs. This is a tough one to chew on."

The Angels fought back to tie the game in the eighth and take Weaver off the hook when Izturis singled with one out and scored on Guerrero's two-out double. Garret Anderson followed with a walk and Rivera hit the first pitch from Rick Bauer for his 18th home run this season.

That broke a string of 52 1/3 consecutive innings by Bauer in which he had not allowed a homer, the longest current streak in the Majors.

"Juan Rivera showed that we can fight back," Weaver said. "That is a good sign for the team to show that we can come back."






