
TEMPE, Ariz. -- Vladimir Guerrero reported to camp on Tuesday morning, took his physical, quietly dressed, hit a slew of batting-practice line drives facing hitting coach Mickey Hatcher, and declared his surgically repaired right knee fit and functional.

In other words, all is well in Angels Nation.












"I ask God to give me good health, and this is the right step," Guerrero said through broadcaster Jose Mota's translation after finishing his first day of work with some leg exercises. "I'm looking forward to playing every day. I don't want to talk about numbers, production. I'm just looking forward to the season."

Guerrero gave two thumbs up to the acquisition of Bobby Abreu -- "tremendous guy, great fit for the ballclub" -- and said he's excited about the prospect of hitting behind the new left fielder and maybe stealing some bases.

"If they let me run," he said, grinning, "I'm going to run."

Admittedly, he won't be as adventurous as in his Montreal youth, when he stole 37 and 40 bases back-to-back in 2001 and 2002. But he does think he can be more assertive than in the past two seasons, when he slipped to two and five steals, respectively.

"No more 30-30," he said, laughing.

Guerrero submitted to surgery on his right medial meniscus in Vail, Co., on Oct. 10. He began working out at home in the Dominican Republic soon afterward, graduating to hitting "nice and easy" every other day and jogging lightly to test the knee.

Guerrero, who celebrated his 33rd birthday on Feb. 9, loves the game for the joy it gives him and never has been caught up in numbers.

He wasn't even impressed when he found out  he'd joined Lou Gehrig last season as the only players in history to register 11 consecutive seasons of hitting at least .300 with 25 or more home runs.

It took a huge finishing kick to get there after he hit .227 in April and .219 in May. A .412 September got Guerrero to .303, and he led his team with 27 homers and 91 RBIs.

"It's not the knee's fault," he said, accepting no excuses for his early struggles. "I just got off to a bad start. I don't want to blame the knee.

"I don't worry about my numbers. I only worry about staying healthy."








"I'm looking forward to playing every day. I don't want to talk about numbers, production. I'm just looking forward to the season."




-- Angels outfielderVladimir Guerrero





One thing he'd clearly like to accomplish is surpassing his 99 starts in right field in 2008 and filling the designated hitter role far fewer than his 44 days and nights last season.

He has made no secret of his distaste for the DH role, taking immense pleasure in running down fly balls and unleashing spectacular throws from right field.

To that end, manager Mike Scioscia said Guerrero will be monitored closely all spring and probably wouldn't begin to appear in Cactus League games until the second or third week, in "early to mid March."

The club exercised his option for this season at $15.5 million. He'll be eligible for free agency if he's not signed to an extension before November.

Guerrero waved off questions about added motivation.

"I really don't have anything to say about contracts," he said. "Let's wait."

Scioscia emphasized that this is one player who doesn't need extra incentives to play full tilt.

"I think he's looking forward to playing with more ease and comfort," Scioscia said. "He's performed very well with some physical issues, and he got to where he wanted to take care of those of those physical issues.

"When you're talking about a knee, shoulder, things like that, getting into baseball activities, you have to be closely watched. We want to get him up and running. There are some hurdles he'll have to get over, but he feels great. On the practice field, we want to get him as close as we can before he plays in Spring Training games."


After spending his first seven seasons on Montreal's unforgiving carpet, Guerrero has spent five years on Anaheim's natural surface. He has no targets in terms of how long he'd like to continue playing.

"All I want is to play as long as God wants me to play," Guerrero said. "Retirement, none of that stuff is on my mind."

His manager feels Guerrero's place is secure in a historical context, that the man from Nizao, Bani, D.R., belongs with the legends of the game.

"We're witnessing a Hall of Fame career," Scioscia said. "I think he has a lot of baseball left in him. If you talk about impact players of an era, Vlad's going to stack up with any of them."

The eight-time All-Star is a .323 career hitter with 392 home runs and 1,268 RBIs in 1,750 Major League games.

Guerrero is one of two Angels to have claimed American League Most Valuable Player awards. He joined Don Baylor (the 1979 MVP) by winning the award in 2004, his first season in Anaheim. In his five seasons with the Angels, Guerrero has averaged 32 homers and 113 RBIs while batting .323.

"Vlad's the man," teammate Torii Hunter said. "I can't wait to see what he does this year."






