
ANAHEIM -- When Francisco Rodriguez was called up in 2002 as a
20-year-old rookie, he had no say in choosing his jersey number and was randomly assigned No. 57.



Of course no one at the time -- Rodriguez included -- put too much thought
into what seemed like an arbitrary number for the young reliever.




But that number couldn't possibly mean more to Rodriguez this
season, as it also symbolizes the record that the closer has been
chasing all season -- Bobby Thigpen's single-season record of 57 saves set in 1990 with the White Sox.




Rodriguez, who insisted that he wasn't focusing on the record earlier
in the season, has shifted his focus as he sits at 53 saves through Sunday's action, and he
admitted he can't stop thinking about his golden opportunity to break
the record.




"I'm getting closer and closer and closer, and honestly I'm not going
to lie, I want to break it so bad," Rodriguez said. "But I have to sit
back and wait for my opportunity to come. My goal is to make it to the
postseason and break that record."



It seems like a certainty that Rodriguez will achieve both of his
goals, as he is on pace for 63 saves and the Angels have an
insurmountable 17-game lead in the American League West with just 26
games to play.



But it hasn't been an easy road for Rodriguez, who has come a long way
from the beginning of the season when he tweaked his delivery to
reduce some of its violence and protect his arm and lower body in
Spring Training.




At the time, Rodriguez was completely oblivious to the record and was
unaware his jersey number would carry so much meaning as the season
went along.



"I just found out this year when you guys started bringing it up,"
Rodriguez said. "I didn't even know what the record was at all. I had no
clue."




But it was Rodriguez's change in his delivery that was largely
criticized before the season started. It was called a bold move,
especially because his former delivery had worked so well and he was
headed into a contract year.




Angels pitching coach Mike Butcher, though, recalls the change much differently.




"I think it was just to relieve stress on his ankle at that time, so
for him and for myself it wasn't a very bold move," Butcher said. "It
was something that had to be done."








&bull; K-Rod nabs single-season save mark
&bull; Teammates revel in 'special season'
&bull; Record-breaker comes against Mariners
&bull; Rodriguez matches saves record
&bull; Putz marvels at K-Rod's dominance
&bull; Save No. 56 helps clinch AL West
&bull; K-Rod thankful for Scioscia's support
&bull; K-Rod closes out win with 55th save
&bull; K-Rod comes full circle with No. 57
&bull; K-Rod's 48th save sets Angels record
&bull; K-Rod becomes fastest to 40 saves
Rodriguez wants to go nine more years
&bull; Devastating slider is ... really a curve
&bull; K-Rod's new delivery a balancing act-->
&bull; Bio | Season splits | Career stats


&bull; K-Rod's record-setting 58th 
&bull; K-Rod ties the record 
&bull; No. 56 closes out Yanks 
&bull; K-Rod's 55th save 
&bull; K-Rod's Angels-record 48th save 
&bull; K-Rod's 40th save 
&bull; K-Rod's All-Star outing 
&bull; K-Rod shows off his curve 

Jeffrey Maier play 
&bull; Ryan Howard's disputed homer 
&bull; A-Rod's disputed home run 
&bull; David Ortiz's disputed home run 
&bull; Marlins-Phillies disputed call 
&bull; Mike Cameron's disputed home run -->





Rodriguez wasn't hurt by the criticism because he has such a hard
shell, which is one of the reasons why he has been so successful as a
closer. He learned early in his career that being a Major Leaguer
means that you're going to hear naysayers, no matter how well things
appear to be going.




"It doesn't matter if you save 100 saves in a row in a season, people
never are going to give you credit," Rodriguez said. "They're going to
point out the negative things. There's always going to be something
negative about me, but I'm used to it because it's all I hear. It's
something you can't control. You just have to keep pitching."



Rodriguez has heard it all this season. He's heard that despite his
gaudy save totals that other closers are having much better seasons.
And he's heard that it's not even his best season as a closer in his
career because his strikeouts are down and his walks are up.



But K-Rod is having none of it, as he still believes that this is his
best season so far in his seven-year career.




"From the standpoint of my numbers, this is my best," Rodriguez said.
"I could probably do a little better in some areas, but I've been proud
of what I've done so far."




Rodriguez has improved in those areas such as walks and strikeouts, as
he hasn't allowed a run in his last eight appearances while striking
out 12 and walking none. In fact, Rodriguez has walked just one of the
last 57 batters he's faced while striking out 21 of those hitters.






And all that talk about Rodriguez being overused by Angels manager
Mike Scioscia has little or no merit. He's on pace to throw 69 innings
this season, which is about six innings fewer than his career average
and much fewer than the 86 and 84 innings he pitched in 2003 and 2004,
respectively.




Rodriguez has been helped by the fact that he hasn't pitched more than
one inning in any appearance and hasn't pitched more than three days
in a row at any point in the season.















"[Rodriguez's] ability to adapt to situations
such as what a hitter has done against him has been very real and had
a major impact on why he's been so consistent."









-- Mike Scioscia













But it's Rodriguez's ability to focus on every game and every batter that has made him so successful this season.




"He's been rock solid the whole time out there," Butcher said. "He
goes game to game. He's going to try and turn the page when something
happens, but at the same time, when he turns the page, he absorbs what he
has to, and I think it separates him from a lot of guys."




It didn't take long for Scioscia to become a believer in Rodriguez, as
he was instrumental helping the Angels to their World Series title in
2002 as a rookie. And Scioscia's view on Rodriguez hasn't changed much
since then.




"He came up as a mature person who understood the game and was blessed
with great talent," Scioscia said. "His ability to adapt to situations
such as what a hitter has done against him has been very real and had
a major impact on why he's been so consistent."




But for Rodriguez, who already has a World Series ring and has more
saves than any closer since 2004, the saves record is just the
icing on the cake.




Rodriguez, only 26 years old, said it's still difficult
for him to appreciate everything that he's accomplished in his career,
especially after coming from a tough background in Venezuela.



"My dream as a kid was just to be a professional ballplayer, but you
never expect you're going to have so much success," Rodriguez said. "I
feel like it's been a very good career so far. I've been successful
since I came into the big leagues, but it's going to take a lot of time
for me to realize all the things I've been doing. I need more time
to realize all this."



But for Rodriguez, if he ever needs to be reminded about the
single-season save record, all he has to do is just look down at the
No. 57 stitched on his jersey.






