
OAKLAND -- They play the same position and came up through the Angels' farm system playing on the same teams, but Jeff Mathis and Mike Napoli leave the competition to the field, having formed a bond extending beyond their shared Florida roots.

"We've been good friends since 2001," said Mathis, the No. 1 man on the depth chart with Napoli on the disabled list with a strained right hamstring. "In fact, he's the first guy I saw when I came to Arizona for minicamp extended Spring Training after I signed in 2001, when the facility was in Mesa. We hung together, and we still stay together in Spring Training.

"Basically, we have the same personality, which is one reason why we get along so well. We're cool, calm, relaxed. He doesn't let anything get to him, and that's how I try to be. He roots for me just as hard as I root for him. It's kind of bittersweet, really, getting this chance to play with him being hurt."

Mathis has drawn raves for his work behind the plate from manager Mike Scioscia, an authority on the finer points of calling a game and handling the various chores that can add up to something big -- such as the shutout Mathis caught in Seattle, with John Lackey going the distance to beat the Mariners on Tuesday.

"That's the No. 1 job we have, to help that pitcher put up zeros," Mathis said. "That's definitely a great feeling, catching a shutout. It's almost like going 4-for-4, having a great day at the plate."

In the manager's experience, an offensive outburst wasn't quite on the level with catching a shutout. His reasoning is irrefutable.

"I've had three-hit games where our team has lost," Scioscia said. "I've never caught a shutout where our team lost.

"When you dive into that defensive part of being a catcher, you start to take pride in little achievements -- whether you jam a guy, set up a guy, get a guy to roll over [and hit a soft grounder]. Those are the little things that add up to a shutout. With that bond and trust, your development in a relationship with a pitcher, [a catcher] should enjoy that shutout as much as the pitcher."

Overwhelmed somewhat by the challenge last year, Mathis hit only .145 in 23 games with the Angels, returning to Triple-A Salt Lake as Napoli took over and had a breakout season.

More confident and assertive in every respect this time around, Mathis took a .214 average into Saturday's assignment, having delivered some clutch hits in his 11 starts behind the plate.

"Success builds your confidence," Mathis said. "Any time you can produce for your team, get a couple hits and contribute, it's always uplifting."

Lineup alteration:  Reggie Willits has come out of an offensive funk, hitting .302 with a .398 on-base mark. He's a .360 hitter right-handed, .278 left-handed, and he's making things happen again, whether he's hitting first against lefties or last against right-handed pitchers.

That's apparently the way it's going to stay for a while, as Scioscia prepares different looks for different pitchers. He likes Willits leading off against lefties, with Chone Figgins second and Orlando Cabrera third, because it gives him three right-handed bats in front of torrid Vladimir Guerrero.

Against right-handers, Guerrero hits third, enabling southpaw-swinging Garret Anderson and Casey Kotchman, along with switch-hitter Gary Matthews, to occupy the fourth, fifth and sixth spots in an order determined by the matchups.

"I like the way we can get more guys on in front of Vlad against lefties," Scioscia said, "and Garret and Casey give us good depth against right-handers. Reggie is versatile enough to hit in both spots."

In Willits' view, "All that matters is seeing my name on the lineup card."

 Numbers game: Figgins' amazing season continues. Since May 31, the third baseman is batting .420 -- the highest average in the Majors over that span.

Figgins has had 31 multi-hit games since May 31, but because of the month he missed recovering from two broken fingers on his throwing hand, still trails Cabrera, whose 41 multi-hit games are sixth in the American League.

No concerns with Shields:  Scioscia said he has no worries about Scot Shields in spite of his recent troubles, including a career-high five runs allowed in two-thirds of an inning on Friday night against the A's. He has yielded 10 earned runs in his past 13 2/3 innings.

"He's fine," Scioscia said. "His numbers before the All-Star break [highlighted by 24 2/3 consecutive scoreless innings] were off the charts.

"There's going to be a little lull a guy will go through. He's got nice action on his ball. A couple of outings his command hasn't been as crisp in the second half, but he's also had good outings. There are times when he isn't getting balls to a spot, that's all."

Shields leads the AL in holds with 23, one more than Cleveland's Rafael Betancourt.

 Minor sensations:  In a 3-1 loss to Albuquerque, Jonathan Rouwenhorst pitched a complete game for Triple-A Salt Lake, yielding three earned runs on six hits and two walks while striking out seven.

Rouwenhorst, 27, from Brethren Christian High School in Cypress, Calif., and Biola College, is 9-7 with a 4.86 ERA. With 20 starts among his 27 appearances, he has 71 strikeouts against 34 walks in 124 innings.

 On Aug. 4 in Angels history: In 1985, Rod Carew stroked career hit No. 3,000 against Minnesota's Frank Viola, becoming the 16th player to reach that plateau on his way to the Hall of Fame.

 Up next: Lackey (13-6, 3.07) faces Dan Haren (13-3, 2.44) in a duel of All-Stars in the series finale at 1:05 p.m. PT on Sunday.






