
CHICAGO -- Their first names are spelled differently but pronounced the same, and that's not all Chone Figgins and Sean Rodriguez hold in common. Both are exceptionally versatile athletes, to such a degree that Rodriguez could emerge as the Angels' new Figgins: jack of all trades, master of some.

If Rodriguez, at 23, is being groomed to fill the Everyman role Figgins vacated in becoming an everyday third baseman, that suits him just fine.

"I'd love to be a guy who allows you to carry one less outfielder and one less infielder, because I can play all those positions," Rodriguez said as the Angels prepared for the White Sox at U.S. Cellular Field. "I've played everywhere. That's how my dad raised me."

His father, Johnny Rodriguez, coaches for the Marlins' Class A Jamestown club, and he's perhaps best known as Alex Rodriguez's batting tutor when A-Rod was a high school sensation in Miami -- "tall, thin and amazing," by Sean Rodriguez's recollection.

When Rodriguez talks about playing everywhere on the field, he means it -- literally.

"I pitched when I was a kid, and I was a catcher from the time I was 11 to 14," he said. "If they put me behind the plate, they'd be surprised. [Robb] Quinlan has been the team's emergency catcher, but I could go back there -- not as an everyday guy, but definitely in an emergency.

"My natural position is actually center field. The Angels moved me to shortstop when they signed me [as a third-round pick in the 2003 First-Year Player Draft]. Every position has its different challenges. The toughest? I'd say third base. There are different lips on the fields to worry about -- and the ball really comes at you."

Rodriguez has recaptured the stroke he used to torch Pacific Coast League pitching at Salt Lake in the past week, batting .293 in the past six games to raise his average to .186 from .154. After starting on Friday night at shortstop -- his second of the season there -- he was back in at second base on Saturday. He's started 30 games at second base, primarily during May with Howie Kendrick and Figgins injured. 

Manager Mike Scioscia raved about Rodriguez's defense in his earlier trial under fire, and Scioscia continues to be impressed with his athleticism and mental toughness.

"Sean has the ability to play multiple positions, and he can swing the bat," Scioscia said. "We really like his future."

Rodriguez embodies what Figgins considers the most important requisite for the all-purpose role: a love of the game and the focus to become immersed in all of its many facets.

"That's how my dad taught me -- to respect the game," Rodriguez said. "I watch every pitch closely, whether I'm playing or not. You can always pick up things that can help you. There's so much to learn -- players' tendencies,  anything that can give you a little edge."

Figgins, a Chone of all trades before becoming a master of third, couldn't have put it any better.






