
PHILADELPHIA -- After missing six consecutive starts, Mike Napoli was back behind the plate for the Angels on Sunday, catching Jered Weaver and facing one of the game's premier pitchers, Phillies lefty Cole Hamels.

Mired in a 2-for-36 slump after a tremendous, power-driven start, Napoli hasn't been pouting as good buddy Jeff Mathis has monopolized the playing time. Napoli has been busy in the batting cage, working on getting his swing fine-tuned with a small bat he whips around with his left arm only, driving balls placed on a hitting tee.

"It lets me feel the whip I need in my swing," Napoli said. "If you hit the ball wrong, you're going to roll over and hit the tee wrong. With a small bat, you've got to hit it just right. It makes me feel shorter to release my hand through the zone. I've been feeling better. Now I've just got to put it to work in a game."





Napoli was on a home run tear early in the season, culminating with two bombs and five RBIs in an Interleague game at home against the Dodgers on May 18. His 10 homers have come in 124 at-bats, but his average has plunged to .202.

"I'm keeping my hands up, staying upright in my stance," Napoli said. "No changes there. I'm just trying to get in a loaded position to fire and use the whole field. If I hit it good, it's gonna go."

Mathis has flourished with his expanded role, but he was looking forward to seeing his best friend on the club rediscover his stroke and start feeling good about himself again.

"I went through the same thing not too long ago," Mathis said, referring to a 2-for-34 slump that preceded a .300 stretch raising his average from .198 to .231. "I was striking out more than I ever have, and when that happens you start pressing, trying to put the ball in play. It's all about getting your hands coming through at the same time. His bottom hand was giving him trouble; with me it was the top hand.

"It's tough when you're in Mike's situation, wanting to get in there. It bothers me when he's not going well, and it's the same with him. I'm cheering for him as much as anybody."

In a true time share, Mathis and Napoli have divided 76 starts evenly this season, 38 apiece.






