
LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. -- A new era is developing with the Angels, but it's one that manager Mike Scioscia does not believe will be void of leadership.

Gone is second baseman Adam Kennedy, the hero of the 2002 American League Championship Series victory over the Twins and a player who commanded a quiet presence in the clubhouse. Kennedy signed a three-year contract last month to play in St. Louis and join former double-play partner David Eckstein.

Darin Erstad also may have played his last games in an Angels uniform. The former No. 1 draft pick, who is currently rehabbing from surgery to remove bone spurs from his right ankle, has been generating interest at the Winter Meetings from a couple of teams. If he remains unsigned, the Angels could bring him back in spring but that remains a lower-level priority.

Both veterans demanded respect and helped guide the team through the course of the long season.

It was Kennedy that last year rode Chone Figgins for a seeming lack of hustle and it was Erstad that dressed down the entire clubhouse one postgame and reminded his teammates that winning, losing and simply playing was a collective effort.

Every clubhouse needs those leaders and Scioscia feels some players will step into that role come next season while others will develop those qualities.

"If you've seen Howie Kendrick play for the last four years and you've seen how hard our young guys that are coming up, the way they play the game, you're excited about that part of it," Scioscia said on Wednesday at the Winter Meetings. "It's the same way when Adam joined our club or Ersty joined the club. They established themselves as these types of players. To become a presence in the clubhouse you have to go out there and play hard and lead by example. These guys are going to get that opportunity to do that.

"You look at a guy like Eckstein and Adam Kennedy, you look at Ersty, you look at what these guys have brought. Some of that influence has moved on. It's something you look at, but I can't envision Howard Kendrick being anything but a gamer as he evolves."



Complete coverage &gt;  

One player that should help fill the leadership gap is center fielder Gary Matthews Jr., who signed a five-year contract with the Angels last month. The 32-year-old not only will bring the experience gained through his up-and-down journey to establish himself has a Major Leaguer but also the perspective of growing up with the game and seeing his dad, Gary Matthews Sr., play.

Beyond finding a leader in the clubhouse, though, the Angels have also been looking for an additional bat to help Vladimir Guerrero in leading the offense. For the second straight year, the Angels were involved in discussions for Red Sox outfielder Manny Ramirez, but those talks stalled.

Scioscia admires Ramirez's ability to ignite an offense but wasn't excited with the look of his ballclub if that deal had gone through.

"A guy with Manny's talent is certainly welcome in any clubhouse in the Major Leagues because of what he can bring," he said. "I think that he's one of the rare players that can make the players around him better and play at a higher level. I think we've seen it wherever he's been. That part of it wouldn't be an issue coming in.

"The part that's an issue in acquiring a talent like Manny or if you talk about trying to get offense, is what it's doing to the rest of your club. If we don't have the pitching intact and if we lose Francisco Rodriguez, Scot Shields, a young starting pitcher, maybe one, two or all three of that package, you're going to be in a position that a lot of teams in baseball are in right now where they're desperately trying to seek the pitching that we have."

The Angels have sought a complementary power bat since the trading deadline in 2005. In Matthews, they have improved their on-base production from the leadoff slot and added some power, but it isn't quite the boost they identified as their No. 1 priority heading into this winter.

Scioscia would like to see a return of the type of offense that was able to slug it out in '02 but feels his current version can be productive and will be supported by the pitching staff.

"We have the ability to score runs, to win ballgames with our pitching staff intact," he said. "If that would go the other way, I don't think you could ever get enough offense to get to be where you want to be. I think if you start to lose some of the key pieces of our starting rotation and the back end of our bullpen, you're not going to find enough offense to win games. We need some guys certainly to provide more offense than they did last year.  We're not as deep offensively as I think any of us had hoped, but it's still there."






