
OAKLAND -- Bartolo Colon took the hill Thursday afternoon with a pair of objectives: to maintain his edge for the impending postseason and to win his 21st game.

The right-hander made good on both counts with five mostly error-free innings as the Angels upended the A's, 7-1.

Robb Quinlan and Jose Molina provided Colon with a pair of homers, while Molina enjoyed a three-RBI day. Juan Rivera and Chone Figgins also drove in runs to give the Angels the season series victory over the A's, 10-9.

The Halos next head to Texas, where they will finish the regular season with a three-game series against the Rangers. What they still don't know is where or against whom they will open the first round of the playoffs.

The White Sox clinched the American League Central earlier in the day with a win over the Tigers. Two spots remain undecided with the Yankees and Red Sox battling it out in the American League East and the Indians still alive for a Wild Card slot.

If the Indians win the Wild Card, the Angels will open the playoffs in Chicago. But if the Wild Card comes out of the AL East, the Angels will open the postseason against the East division winner. The Angels still have a shot at opening the first round at home, but trail the Yankees for the second-best record in the AL.

Wherever the Angels fall in the postseason draw, Colon will take the ball in Game 1 after making a strong final argument for the AL Cy Young Award on Thursday. The only other Angels pitcher to win the award was Dean Chance, in 1964.

Competition for this year's AL Cy Young will come from White Sox starters Jon Garland and Mark Buehrle, Indians starter Cliff Lee, Minnesota left-hander Johan Santana and Yankees closer Mariano Rivera.

"I don't see much of a debate in that. I think absolutely [Colon] is the Cy Young winner," manager Mike Scioscia said. "A lot of guys have pitched well. There are a lot of candidates, but for what Bart has done, the way he's pitched, being the lead dog in the rotation and the numbers he's put up, I think he deserves it."

Going on three days' rest Thursday, Colon was not slated for an extended outing. While there were no firm caps on innings or pitch count, Scioscia had said that Colon would not be pitching deep into the game.

The A's did their best to make Colon work for his win, running some deep counts and extending him past the minimum in all but his last inning. Colon made one mistake to Nick Swisher, who parked a 3-2 pitch in the fourth for his 21st home run of the year, but that was the lone run he allowed. The right-hander scattered four other hits while walking two and striking out three in his 80-pitch outing.

Colon improved to 21-8, matching Nolan Ryan for the second-most wins in franchise history. His win total is tops in the AL, while his 3.48 ERA is seventh in the league. He also ranks among league leaders in strikeouts and innings pitched.

"I would welcome it if I do get [the Cy Young Award]," Colon said through an interpreter. "It is out of my hands. I cannot add or subtract to my record now, but I would welcome it."

One overarching concern about Colon has been a sore lower back that has plagued him for the past month. The right-hander said he felt that Thursday's start was more of a challenge mentally than physically because it requires more concentration to prepare for short rest.

Colon's back is hardly a non-issue, but said he'll be able to ride it out.

"I'm going to feel it throughout and even in the postseason," Colon said. "I'm not worried about it. The mini-season that starts Tuesday will kick in the adrenaline, and the pain for me or anyone on the team will be forgotten."

Scioscia benched most of his regulars for the second straight game. Only Orlando Cabrera and Chone Figgins got starts in the field, while Bengie Molina served as the designated hitter.

Figgins got the Angels on the board in typical Angels fashion by working a walk in the top of the first, stealing second, his 58th of the year, and scoring by advancing 90 feet each time on a pair of groundouts.

The Angels then gave Colon some breathing room in the second, when Quinlan led off the inning with his fifth homer of the year and Jose Molina followed Casey Kotchman's walk with a two-run shot off A's starter Barry Zito to put the Angels up, 4-0.

The Angels then added single runs in the third, sixth and ninth innings. Jeff Mathis scored a run as a pinch-runner for Bengie Molina in the sixth and collected his first Major League base hit when he singled in the eighth. Zito (14-13) took the loss.

John Lackey will pitch Friday's opener in Texas. Jarrod Washburn heads to the hill Saturday and rookie Ervin Santana will pitch the closer Sunday, allowing Colon to start Tuesday.

"I got exactly what I was looking for today, and what Mike and the coaches were looking for," Colon said. "I put an emphasis on finishing well."






