
NEW YORK -- The weight of expectation fell hard on Gregg Jefferies, partly because of his brilliant Minor League career and partly because the Mets brought him to the Major Leagues when only his bat was ready for the challenge.

A skilled offensive player with speed and the ability to drive pitches to all fields, Jefferies never conquered the defensive part of the game.

His one-dimensional game was an obstacle from the outset of his Major League career. He never developed into the player the Mets envisioned until 1993, when, under the tutelage of Joe Torre, he played first base and became a productive top-of-the-order player with the Cardinals, batting .335 with 141 runs, 138 RBIs, 58 stolen bases, 51 doubles and 28 home runs in two seasons.

Now, with a resume that includes only one full season of exceptional production, Jefferies appears on the Hall of Fame ballot for the first time. He hardly is assured of a second appearance.

Jefferies was a thick-legged but nonetheless fleet-footed kid from Northern California who had an abiding appreciation for Ty Cobb, Elvis Presley and the Doors. His father was influential in his baseball development.

His assignment to the Major League Mets late in the 1988 season -- he had a six at-bat cup of coffee the previous September -- became a clubhouse issue and prompted significant resentment among veteran players.


  Gregg Jefferies' resume 
Teams: Mets, Royals, Cardinals, Phillies, Angels and TigersKey stats: .289 average, 300 doubles, 126 home runs, 196 stolen basesAwards: Baseball America Minor League player of the year 1987, '88Best HOF vote Pct.: First year on the ballot Peers in Hall: Gary Carter, Ozzie Smith, Nolan Ryan, George BrettMore stats and bio &gt;

The resentment lingered and was a factor in the Mets' decision to trade him in December 1991. General manager Al Harazin believed Jefferies wouldn't reach his potential with the Mets and included him in a trade with the Royals for Bret Saberhagen.

In one season playing on the artificial surface of Royals Stadium, Jefferies hit 36 doubles and drove in 75 runs. He moved across Missouri after the '92 season and, befriended by Todd Zeile, prospered under Torre and on the artificial grass of Busch Stadium.

When Jefferies signed as a free agent with the Phillies in 1994, the then 27-year-old became the first player with a contract worth $5 million or more who never had scored 100 runs, driven in 100 runs or hit 20 home runs. He never reached those figures subsequently, either.



Complete coverage &gt;  


Jefferies retired at age 33 after two modest seasons with the Tigers. He finished his career with a .289 average, 126 home runs, 663 RBIs, 300 doubles, 472 walks and 761 runs scored in 1,465 games.






