
MESA, Ariz. -- It could be an intriguing reality TV show: "As the Angels' Rotation Turns ... and Turns ... and Turns."

It is sure to be a dizzying ride, keeping up with the maneuverings and movements of the array of starting pitchers at the disposal of manager Mike Scioscia and pitching coach Mike Butcher.











"We're looking at some stuff, and by that I mean options," Scioscia said on Tuesday morning in his office. "Looking past the first couple weeks of the season, we're going to be OK."

Eventually, the Angels could be much better than OK in their rotation. It could be -- if all the chips fall into place -- the deepest, most effective quintet in the Majors, featuring five proven or potential All-Stars.

What we know with certainty as March spins into April: John Lackey, Ervin Santana and Kelvim Escobar will not be in the rotation for the season's first few weeks.

What we think we know with a degree of certainty: They will be replaced by Dustin Moseley, Nick Adenhart and Shane Loux, with Joe Saunders and Jered Weaver fronting the rotation.

What we consider a fairly realistic possibility: Escobar, Lackey and Santana will be back in the rotation by May. Exactly when they return hinges on how they respond to treatment and increasing workloads testing arm strength and durability.

The most amazing aspect of the status of the Big Three at the moment is that Escobar is clearly ahead of both Lackey and Santana and could muscle his way into the rotation sooner than his two buddies.

Escobar, who initially wasn't expected back until late July, is months ahead of schedule. He's been unleashing mid-90s fastballs in camp games, and on Friday night in San Diego, he'll take the mound in a formal Major League setting against the Padres with a 50-pitch limit.

"I'm really excited about this," Escobar said. "It tells me I'm getting closer to making this a reality."








"They all have the ability, if they're effective, to pitch deep in a game."




-- Mike Scoiscia, on Nick Adenhart, Shane Louxand Dustin Mosely




Saunders, an American League All-Star in 2008 after beginning the spring competing with Santana for the No. 5 rotation spot, threw 92 pitches on Monday in a camp game and is the obvious front-runner for the Opening Day assignment against the Athletics on Monday night at Angel Stadium.

"I feel good," Saunders said, having endured a bout with food poisoning over the weekend. "Everything's in working order."

Scioscia said he was "a little disappointed in what some of the reports were" from Saunders' camp effort -- he gave up five earned runs in 6 1/3 innings -- but conceded that the residual effects of food poisoning could have been a factor.

"His stuff picked up as the game went on," Scioscia added. "It could have been a little Spring Training [dead] arm. We'll see where he is. We haven't ruled out having him in the rotation the first go-round, and he could be a candidate to pitch Opening Day."

Asked about the prospect of taking the ball in the opener, Saunders said, "It's an honor if I do get the opportunity. It's a matter of our horses being down again this year."

He was referring to Lackey and Escobar, who opened 2008 on the disabled list. Lackey had a strained right triceps and Escobar's right shoulder ailment was later diagnosed as a torn labrum. Lackey returned six weeks into the season -- he could be back a little earlier this time -- but Escobar missed the entire campaign.

Moseley, along with Adenhart the most consistent of the Angels' starters this spring, will face the Dodgers in Dodger Stadium on Thursday night. This sets up Moseley for Tuesday and the second game of the season-opening four-game series against the A's.

Weaver is staying behind to get to 100 pitches in a camp game on Saturday, which would have him ready to go on Thursday, in the series finale, assuming all goes well.

Weaver had shoulder tightness early in the spring and some mid-back pain recently, but he was strong enough, Scioscia said, to have gone past the sixth inning in his Cactus League outing against the White Sox on Monday.

Adenhart, who will stay behind to pitch in a camp game on Sunday, will be in line to open a weekend series against the Red Sox on Friday night. Loux figures to work the third game of the series with the A's on Wednesday night.

Having gone four innings recently in a camp game, Darren Oliver is stretched out for long relief -- or even a spot start, if necessary, the wily southpaw said.

"I've made a few starts," he said, grinning.

Of Oliver's 466 career appearances, 228 have been in a starting role.

He hasn't started a game since 2004, but Oliver was an option for Mets manager Willie Randolph for Game 7 of the 2006 National League Championship Series against the Cardinals after six brilliant innings of relief in Game 3 of the series. The nod went to another Oliver, Perez, and the Cards prevailed, 3-1.

"We're not considering him a starter," Scioscia said of Oliver, "but he has the ability to pitch multiple innings."

Scioscia seems content with opening the season with three men -- Moseley, Adenhart and Loux -- with a combined 30 lifetime starts in the Major Leagues, 20 of those by Moseley.

"They all have the ability, if they're effective, to pitch deep in a game," Scioscia said. "I feel good about how we're going to look as we get into our rotation."

He apparently was referring to May. April is about as muddled as it can get in this reality show.






